Cape Town - Legal professionals and political analysts have called a bill aimed at federalising the Western Cape unconstitutional.  The Cape Independence Advocacy Group said the bill claims the right for the people of the Western Cape to make decisions for themselves, which will change the current constitutional order, where the people of the Western Cape are governed by decisions made by South Africans as a whole, even when they fundamentally disagree with them. The group’s co-founder Phil Craig said that the unspoken claim is that Western Cape people do not exist, only South African people. This, he says, the bill disputes. “The Western Cape Constitution, however, starts with the phrase ‘In humble submission to Almighty God, we, the people of the Western Cape’, and only adopts three of South Africa’s eleven official languages, clearly establishing that the ‘people of the Western Cape’ are distinct from the ‘South African people as a whole’,” he said. Craig said that the bill would be tabled in the Western Cape Provincial Parliament and said this would be done because they do not want the ANC and EFF to vote it down. Professor Nico Steytler from the Dullah Omar Institute at UWC said the group’s bill is “nonsense on stilts”. “This group cannot produce a ‘bill’ for the Western Cape Provincial Parliament; only an MEC or member of the legislature may do so. This is merely a document, not a bill by any stretch of the imagination. “Its claim that there is ‘a Western Cape people’ in terms of international law is mistaken. Basing its claim on WC’s ‘unique history, culture, demographics and, most significantly, its different ideological views’ places it beyond any international law recognition. Ideology has never been recognised as an indicator of ‘a people’; it is pure political posturing.” Steytler said the Western Cape could not redefine its own constitutional status. “The Constitutional Court has said a province cannot pull itself up by its own bootstraps to be something different than what the Constitution ordained. The provincial government has no power to hold a referendum on the province’s independence,” he said. Bongani Luthuli, an attorney, said that South Africa had come very far in the constitutional project that started in the Codesa negotiations. He said a Bill of this nature is emotive and brings back difficult moments where the country was divided into Bantustans and segregation was the order of the day.