FROM cooking her products in her mother’s cramped kitchen on the Cape Flats to selling her beauty products nationwide, 29-year-old Laetitia Osborne is determined to succeed.  The Cape Town scientist turned beauty product entrepreneur from Ravensmead is the proud owner of Shea By Design, a hair and skin care range. What started out as a means to an end in her mother's wendy house on her grandmother's property is now a thriving business, and Laetitia has no plans to slow down on her journey to success. When Osborne started her natural hair journey in 2017, she never imagined that the products she cooked in her mother's pots and pans would now be used by people all over the country.  Osborne said she started her business to help her mother financially, who raised her alone.  "I got a bursary that year, and there were some funds left over. Instead of spending it on unnecessary things, I visited markets to see what was in demand and what the people were selling. I always had a head for business and knew that one day I wanted to do my own thing,“ she said. Osborn did some research and decided to buy shea butter and essential oils. At the time, she was also busy obtaining a degree in biodiversity and conservation biology. "I melted the butter and started experimenting with adding some oils to it. I made 10 small samples and gave them to friends and family to use. They raved about it, and it was the beginning of Shea By Design,“ she said.  From her sample days, Osborne’s business has since grown. She now sells everything from black soap shampoo to an avocado deep conditioning mask, accessories and even chapstick. Her operations has also relocated from her mother’s kitchen to a factory due to an increase in demand.  "I always tell people quality is better than quantity, and I strive to put only the best products out there,“ she said.  Osborne, who works as a geographic information systems (GIS) technician during the day, said market access was a very important element for her business - a feat she was still getting a hang on.  She said while she first celebrated having her products sold on Takealot, the cost associated with the exercise proved too costly. "It was a difficult process to finally get my products listed on Takealot, but even more difficult to stick to it. I'm no longer listed due to the costs being too high. I still don't take anything for granted and would like to employ more people to work for me in the future and focus on my business full time. The possibilities are endless.” Liesl Smerdon, the owner of Curl Chemistry, knows exactly how challenging it is to get your product into the market and eventually sell through retailers like Takealot. She told Weekend Argus her business took off in 2017 when she got requests from clients.  "At that time, I didn't even have a website or business line. Facebook was my marketing tool and word of mouth." Since 2017, her business has flourished, and her products are now available at various online stores, including Takealot and Hyperly, as well as Makro. She highlighted the challenges of market access in the retail space for small businesses. "I have tried, sent in proposals in vain. Sometimes I wonder if I'm prepared to be stocked in retailers as it is very big numbers. The costs are a lot to absorb, and many small business owners can simply not afford to be listed." Osborne said her dream was one day to have her customers being able to walk into any store and find her products.   "I want my products to be accessible to everyone. One day is one day, and I'll keep on working until I reach it!" Weekend Argus