New year is around the corner and the people are filled with excitement and joy for the upcoming Cape Town Minstrel Carnival, now known as the Hollywoodbets Cape Town Street Parade. The Carnival returns this week after a two-year absence due to Covid-19, while the popular Tweede Nuwe Jaar Minstrel Parade will get the year started on a colourful and joyous note next week. The Cape Town Minstrel Carnival or the  Kaapse Klopse is a festival held in Cape Town in early January.  It is the traditional celebration of Tweede Nuwe Jaar on the second of January by the coloured people in Cape Town. The parade will begin at Hanover Street in District Six from 12pm and end around 10pm in Bo-Kaap. Thousands will take to the streets of the Cape Town city centre on Monday, to celebrate the traditional ‘Tweede Nuwe Jaar’.  Between 60 000 and 100 00 people are expected to line the streets. For those wishing to have uninterrupted views of the minstrels as they pass in front of City Hall, there is an exclusive Golden Circle area restricted to 800 people, with tickets available at Computicket for R120 per person. Entertainment starts with the opening ceremony from 10h30 on the Grand Parade in front of City Hall. There is a stage, and big screen TVs will broadcast in multiple locations on the Grand Parade and on the route. There is a Grand Stand free to the public, but with limited space. Devin Heffer, Hollywoodbets brand and communication manager said that Hollywoodbets was honoured to be a part of this iconic event, now known as the Hollywoodbets Cape Town Street Parade, that is a part of the country’s rich cultural tapestry.  Growth, community development and fun are in the DNA of the Purple Family, and these are the values they share with the Kaapse Klopse Karnival Association. Muneeb Gambeno, Kaapse Klopse Karnival association director said that preparations are going very well, they are obviously working around the clock to get the event delivered in the best possible fashion.  They are expecting between 100 000 and 150 000 people. “Every indication from authorities is that people are hungry for events, particularly free events, so we are certainly expecting a big crowd.  “Fifteen or 16 troupes are registered thus far, and members per troupe range from about 500 members to the larger 1500 member troupes,” said Gambeno. Baydu Adams, a member of the Juvie Boy Entertainers and a social media personality for the last 9 years has been bringing celebrities to jol with JBE and his list includes names like Siya Kolisi, Scarra Ntubeni, Conrad Jantjes, Nizaam Carr, JP Duminy, Siv Ngesi, Wayne McKay, Carl Weber, Dalin Oliver, Yaaseen Barnes and many others. “We are just out there to have a good time and to give our best, the rest is up to the judges. As title holders, we have to defend our crown and that's all we can set out to do! What is exciting is that we have not had this in over 2 years so everyone's excited to be out and performing again”, said Adams. For Fiekrie Abrahams who is the member of the West London All Stars , the carnival means a lot for them as they are glad to be back after the Covid-19 period. He said that they are happy to be back. “We are happy to be back. The carnival in our community is something that we all strive for and to be part of and enjoy ourselves”, said Abrahams. He also said that as West London All Stars they are all striving to be the best in whatever they are doing. “Our expectation this year is to actually win our section of the carnival.There are 17 items that we are participating in  and we hope to do well in all 17 items. We are hoping to win the carnival  at the end of the day, that means achieving the highest points out of all to win the carnival”, he added. There are a number of celebrities that will be attending the carnival including Comedians, radio presenters, actors and  influencers ,MC Siv Ngesi, MC Wayne McKay, MC Soli Philander Devon Saunders Trevor Davids,Imraan Van Kesteren, Heindrich Wyngaard,Christian Bennett  and Guy McDonald. Mayco Member for Safety and Security, JP Smith, City's said that they are incredibly excited to see these events return to their festive season calendar; not only for the benefit of the participants, but also the thousands of spectators. “Many visitors have come to know that a festive season visit to Cape Town is not complete without witnessing the street parades. For the first time in a number of years, Cape Town will usher in the new year on a traditional note, and we could not be happier,’ said Smith.