Gershwin Wanneburg A CAPE woman has taken legal steps against a moving company for money lost after they took 38 days to move her furniture from Johannesburg -- only for her belongings to arrive ‘damaged’ with some items missing. Hlobisile Shoba still gets emotional when she thinks about how her Christmas plans were ruined after a nightmare experience with a furniture removal company. Shoba, a finance professional, moved from Johannesburg to Cape Town in November last year. She was expecting her furniture and other belongings to be waiting for her in storage when she arrived, which is why she did not mind paying R13 800 with the assurance that this would be done in time. Instead, she waited more than a month for her things to be delivered. And, when she finally received them, many items were missing or dirty, including half an L-shaped couch she had purchased at @home furniture store for R25 000. Instead of entertaining her family at her flat in Milnerton, overlooking a swimming pool and the ocean in the distance – she flew to Johannesburg to see them. “The plan was when I move here, I give myself a month or two, and I get settled, set up my place, have my family over, over the Christmas period,” Shoba said. “I’ve spent the money on things I don’t need and my place is not set up. It’s not as nice as I want it to be for my family. That was really upsetting.” Her plan was to stay in a hotel and keep her things in storage until she could move into her own place at the end of November. Initially, she was told to expect delivery on October 28th. But that date came and went with the delivery date repeatedly pushed back.  Finally, she was told that the customer whose goods were meant to share a truck with hers, had postponed. If she wanted her possessions transported independently, she needed to pay an additional fee. She refused, saying she could not afford the extra expense. As she was still without furniture, she moved into an Air B&B until her furniture arrived in the first week of December. But with that came more disappointment. “They took my couch covered. When it came to me, it was uncovered, it was dirty, it’s got water stains. I took pictures, I sent (the pictures) to them. They never said anything, not sorry, not we apologise, nothing,” Shoba said. One of her biggest gripes is that she was constantly chasing the removers – they did not offer updates unless she contacted them. She has retained a lawyer to help her recover the R6 000 she spent on her Air B&B stay, and a few items that are still missing, including a soundbar, a chair and a suitcase with clothing. “It’s almost like I have to start again and furnish my place, because even the mattress that they had … it came dirty. It smells like it was sitting in a place that is damp.” In the lawyer’s letter, seen by Weekend Argus, Shoba’s representative laid out her demands. “Should you fail to pay our client and deliver her missing items as demanded, we hold instructions to institute legal proceedings against L&M to recover the amount of R6 000 and the value of the missing items,” read the letter dated December, 30. Shoba said she chose the furniture removal company, based on her desire to support black-owned businesses and the accreditations featured on their website, including Proudly South African and the Road Freight Association. She now wishes that she had been more stringent about researching the company’s track record via online reviews. Happy MaKhumalo Ngidi, Proudly South African Chief Marketing Officer, said L&M’s Proudly SA member status lapsed in August 2021.  Gavin Kelly, CEO of the Road Freight Association, said L&M was not currently in good standing with the association. Although they paid their 2023 membership fees, they are in arrears for other years. Weekend Argus made several attempts to contact L&M for comment.  The company’s CEO Oscar Magudulela eventually told the newspaper he was unable to comment and deferred to his communications specialist, who is on leave until tomorrow. Weekend Argus