Cape Town – A group of Western Cape politicians, all with chequered pasts, will cross the floor to a new political movement. The People’s Movement for Change (PMC) is a vehicle created by former ANC bigwig Marius Fransman to “initiate public consensus and debate around the current socio-economic climate” facing the country.  Fransman said he was mulling the possibility of registering the movement as a political party “if the people on the ground want that to happen”.  “For now we are just a movement.” Fransman said he initiated the movement as an alternative platform for communities and organisations to join forces through a “new spirit” of community activism.  “The PMC is the reignited spirit, banner and platform where African, coloured, Muslim and white communities can stand in solidarity and unity to bring change like we did during the 1980s with the UDF,” said Fransman.  “We reimagine the days and campaigns of the old UDF. Its principles and values for a New South Africa resonate in every one of us. People must feel welcome. We believe that we must get South Africa talking again in a way that the most ordinary person, the one that can’t always express in big meetings, has a say. “There’s a tendency that people with skills, capacity and wisdom that aren’t always looking for political positions are just suppressed and their interest to help and advise is being ignored. We will give such people a space to flourish.” Former Patriotic Alliance provincial leader Sammy Claassen, who joined the organisation recently, said: “Ordinary people are left frustrated and felt badly dropped by politicians and leadership at a national, provincial and local level. “The current leadership and political discourse of bad leadership, poor governance and lack of service delivery by the rulers of this day has created great despondency and lack of confidence in the government, political system and corrupt leadership,” Claassen told the Weekend Argus.  “Our people are still suffering severe conditions of poverty, load shedding, fuel price, price of bread, economic hardship, high level of crime, unemployment and corruption. All of this socio-economic trauma leads to violence, anger and aggression that so many of us never felt before. The ANC, EFF and DA blame each other and none want to take responsibility nor take accountability for the mess.” Former GOOD leader and councillor in Drakenstein, Edgar Arendse, as well as Bazil Jacobs are already part of the movement. Arendse’s membership of GOOD was terminated following an internal disciplinary process. He was accused of pilfering membership fees.  Arendse told the Weekend Argus that the allegations against him were “lies” and that nothing that GOOD had accused him of held any water.  “I’m not guilty, I did absolutely nothing wrong. I am sitting with the proof, the money was used for party posters,” he said.  Asked if he would join the PMC, Arendse said he was already part of the movement.  “This movement will bring change, change that is so desperately needed,” he said.  Jacobs echoed Arendse’s sentiments, saying that he had also joined the movement.  In November 2016, the national disciplinary committee of the ANC found Fransman guilty on two counts of misconduct and suspended his party membership for five years, consequently removing him as chairperson of the provincial branch. But it was overturned after the sexual assault charges against him were officially dropped in September 2019.  Political analyst Professor Zweli Ndevu said: “Marius has been in the wilderness since he was suspended by the ANC. It was difficult for him to find a new political home after that, I can imagine. Remember, when one leaves the ANC you lose a lot of popularity. Look at Allan Boesak for example. I think Marius will use this platform to re-enter the political arena.“ Weekend Argus.