Cape Town – As people gradually return to work after the festive season holidays, the City of Cape Town's emergency services has revealed the extent to which it was kept busy over this period. Its Public Emergency Communication Centre dealt with 22 410 reported incidents, of which 39% were calls for medical assistance and 19% had to do with the breaking of by-laws. A total of 27 lives were lost in fires. The City said in a statement that Metro Police officers made 332 arrests and issued 13 605 fines for traffic and by-law transgressions, with officers also recovering firearms and ammunition. Ruth Solomons, spokesperson for the City’s Metro Police Department, said 34 drunken drivers were arrested from December 16 to January 2 across the city, with three of them nabbed at accident scenes. She said 23 arrests were made for the illegal possession of firearms and ammunition, including 10 illegal firearms, 190 rounds of ammunition and six imitation guns.  Meanwhile, traffic officers arrested 273 motorists for driving under the influence of alcohol and 46 for reckless and negligent driving. According to the statement, about 4 667 warrants were executed, 515 public transport vehicles were impounded and alcohol was confiscated. Jermaine Carelse, spokesperson for the City’s Fire and Rescue Service, said it responded to 1 237 fires throughout the season.  "The bulk of that is vegetation fires (845 ), [while there were] 155 Informal structure incidents," he said. In a breakdown of the informal settlement shack fires that left many homeless, Charlotte Powell, spokesperson for Disaster Risk Management, said 34 shacks were lost to fire at Masiphumelele, 247 at Phola Park, and 106 were destroyed in Dunoon. She said about 1 072 people were left homeless. “There have been seven fatal drownings along the coastline... between December and now. All of these took place outside of designated bathing areas or after lifeguards had already left the beach," Patricia van der Ross, Mayco member for Community Services and Health said. About 415 staff and volunteers were deployed by the Disaster Risk Management Centre to various public spaces, and with the help of the newly-established Identikidz programme, they managed to reunite nearly 400 children with their parents. City Mayco member for Safety and Security JP Smith said it has been a busy festive season, and thanked staff for their hard work. "Our staff have stood up to the challenges as well as our resources have allowed. The task was made more challenging by the behaviour of a minority who had no regard for the law, and no interest in taking accountability for their own actions.  “Our alcohol confiscations soared, and while there is a drop in the overall litres confiscated, that is only because people are employing different tactics to get alcohol into our public spaces. Bottles of spirits have now become sachets; large beers have been replaced by smaller bottles, and tales also abound of people disguising alcohol as babies wrapped in blankets, or using their children’s milk and juice bottles to smuggle alcohol onto the beaches. We cannot carry on like this, and perhaps it is time to consider instituting stronger measures against transgressors," said Smith.