The ongoing high temperatures are an indication of a looming global warming crisis, but also a caution for a potential socio-economic crisis in South Africa, a medical expert has warned. Over a 15-year period in South Africa there were about 8.5 million deaths and about 50 000 of those were likely associated with extreme heat, said Dr Caradee Wright from the South African Medical Research Council (SAMRC). “Those are deaths that could be avoided if we took precautions like staying hydrated, avoiding outdoor physical exercise and heavy work when it’s a heatwave,” she said. Wright said she was particularly concerned for the low-income settlements dwellers who stay in informal dwellings and RDP houses as their infrastructure was not always to the best standard. “Those who live in informal settlements may not always have the best building material. They could use anything from metal, brick and tile, with no ceiling. This becomes difficult for their homes to have adequate ventilation. Spacing of these dwellings can also be problematic, creating immense discomfort when it is hot,” she said. Wright warned that South Africa should be concerned and that awareness needs to be raised among South Africans on the dangers of extreme heat on health. “We are heading towards a crisis and there are two main issues why we will be in a predicament. The first is that South Africans have no resilience, and the other is that we do not have services. When it is hot, we need water, there are immense water shortages and we do not have adequate health care. In times where one experiences heatstroke or heat-related illness, it is not guaranteed that they will have the means to get to a clinic. “The greatest concern are outside workers and children. The heat has immense negative effects on them. Working for Water in Cape Town has resorted to begin working before the sun comes out because of the unbearable hot temperatures,” she said. Lehlohonolo Thobela from the South African Weather Service said that the country is not experiencing heatwave conditions. However, the south-western parts of the country, which include the Northern Cape, Western Cape and parts of the Eastern Cape, may still expect hot to very hot conditions till March. Warm to hot conditions are still expected over the central and eastern parts of the country next month.  “We are still in the La Niña season, which is expected to move to a neutral state early autumn. In terms of temperatures, minimum temperatures are still expected to be above normal across the country. However, maximum temperatures are expected to be below normal over most parts of the country during late summer extending into early autumn,” he said. Disaster Risk Management Centre spokesperson Charlotte Powell said Cape Town has been experiencing a very warm summer and the City’s Disaster Risk Management Centre will issue advisories to the public about ways to mitigate the impacts. “The City has developed a brochure, detailing the dos and dont’s in managing heatwave conditions. “Generally speaking, our staff also conduct outreaches, particularly at old age homes and other senior care facilities, to create awareness of the risks associated with exposure to hot weather conditions. “The elderly are among the groups considered vulnerable to the impacts of extreme heat. Others would include infants and young children, persons with chronic medical conditions and pregnant women. “The City advises the public to stay out of the sun on very hot days, especially during the hours of 10am and 3pm. Stay well hydrated, and make sure you have sun protection should you have to be outdoors, like wearing cool clothes, using sunscreen if available or wearing a wide-brimmed hat, and sunglasses,” she said.