Cape Town – The body of a 41-year-old man who drowned at the Wolfgat Nature Reserve, far west of Monwabisi beach in Khayelitsha yesterday, remains missing and the search  continues. According to reports the man was swimming with friends in the surf at about 1pm, and never returned. “Despite an extensive air, sea and shoreline search there remains no sign of the 41-year-old local man who went disappeared in the surf. Police Dive Unit officers attended the scene and police divers are continuing their search. Out thoughts are with the family and friends of the missing man in this difficult time,” said Nicky Whitehead, the National Sea Rescue Institute’s Strandfontein station commander. “The NSRI Strandfontein were activated after City of Cape Town law enforcement officers at Groot Wolfgat Nature Reserve, on the False Bay Coast, received reports of a person disappearing under the water while swimming in the mid-surf break. Our thoughts are with the family and friends of the missing man in this difficult time,” she said. Patricia van der Ross, Mayco member for community services and health, said the location is west of Monwabisi beach, far removed from the area serviced by lifeguards. “There have been no drownings at Monwabisi beach this season. Lifeguards have successfully prevented three fatalities and implemented countless prevention interventions at Monwabisi beach to date. The drowning of this 41-year-old man is the third along this stretch of coast of Wolfgat Nature Reserve this season,” said Van Der Ross. She reminded the public to only swim where and when lifeguards are on duty, between their red and yellow flags designating the safest area to swim. Meanwhile, the City has condemned the deadly attack on a Cape fur seal that also happened at Monwabisi beach yesterday, which saw four people arrested. According to Deputy Mayor and Mayco member for spatial planning and environment, Eddie Andrews, four people were arrested following an anonymous tip-off, but Andrews said the seal had to be euthanised due to the severity of the injuries it sustained after the suspects stoned the marine mammal.  “Thanks to an anonymous tip-off and the swift response from the Cape of Good Hope SPCA and the City’s law enforcement. “This is one of the most brutal attacks on our wildlife in recent times. One cannot fathom the pain and stress the seal had to endure while this was happening. I am shocked and horrified and call on the public to please keep on notifying us when they see marine animals or any animals being attacked, harmed or in distress.  “We have said it many times before, but I want to remind the public to please keep a safe and respectful distance from marine animals at all times, and to not interfere or feed them.  “Pets should be removed where wildlife is present. Cape Town’s unique location with its pristine coastline and Table Mountain National Park, together with protected areas and nature reserves require from all of us to be mindful of our impact on wildlife and to take extra care to live in harmony alongside these creatures,” Andrews said.