A third of the arrests this week have been attributed to drunk driving, with over 250 motor vehicle accident-related incidents recorded, as trauma cases continue to burn our health system as we enter 2023. New Year celebrations are almost upon us and emergency personnel, traffic, fire and rescue personnel are holding their breaths, calling on us to act responsibly and not flood hospitals or face being arrested or be six feet under. The highest speeds recorded this week were 175 km/h in a 120 km/h zone. Traffic authorities are pleading with motorists to slow down and to be mindful of the fact that pedestrians and children are often the casualties of their speed and drunken driving. Department of health spokesperson, Mark van der Heever called on people to change the narrative of placing pressure on our emergency staff as their actions could lead to fatalities and injuries. “We can help ease the pressure on our health system by considering how our personal choices affect those around us. Members of the public are urged to always practise responsible behaviour and model good habits to other persons. Don’t drink and drive and avoid interpersonal violence. “This helps to ensure that the public health system is not put under unnecessary strain and staff have the capacity to respond to life-threatening emergencies,“ he said. Trauma cases had already reached 4 799 by mid-week, with 1 174 stabbings, 1 099 blunt assaults, 225 motor vehicle-related injuries and 183 pedestrian-related injuries, 67 gunshot wounds, 1 127 accidental injuries and 113 self-harm injuries. “Trauma cases continue to burden our health system, with interpersonal violence among the biggest contributors to the province’s quadruple burden of disease,” he said. While the Department of Health feels the effects of violence and injuries, addressing upstream factors must be a collaborative effort. The Western Cape government has adopted an approach that brings together colleagues from the departments of health, community safety, education and social development, to not only address the incidents themselves, but also the causal factors. “As the year draws to a close, our hospitals and emergency medical services will continue to respond to calls for help, 24/7. “Citizens can do their part and avoid preventable trauma and injuries,” it said. The hospital and 24-hour community centres are geared up for trauma cases flooding into their emergency wards. “Over holiday periods, unfortunately, we do see many motor vehicle accidents, pedestrian accidents, and other trauma cases of injuries due to interpersonal violence and chronic conditions which deteriorate and require medical care. “Ambulances are placed at strategic points to promote road safety on the days when traffic volumes are expected to reach their peak. “Motorists and road users can help mitigate the risk of road deaths and injuries by working with traffic law enforcement authorities and showing consideration and respect for our fellow road users,” it said. Acting provincial MEC of Mobility, Ivan Meyer called on road users to be responsible: “Our 24/7-365 approach along with the vast majority of road users supporting our efforts are reaping rewards. “We, however, remain concerned about the high number of drunk drivers, with more than 75% of this week’s arrests being for drunk driving. “Our colleagues in Emergency Metro Medical Services have reported high numbers of call-outs and we continue to appeal to all road-users to exercise caution,” he said. Meyer's office said more roadblocks are expected this weekend and that pedestrians are the main casualties of speed when motorists reach more than 60km/hour. “Western Cape Provincial Traffic Services implemented a total of 400 integrated roadblocks, vehicle checkpoint and speed control operations across the province in the week of December 19 to 27, and 51 674 vehicles were stopped and checked. A total of 17 322 fines were issued for various traffic violations ranging from driver to vehicle fitness,” their office stated. “A total of 596 speeding offences were recorded. “Slowing down will give you more time to avoid pedestrians in the road. “If you are travelling more slowly and you collide with a pedestrian, the pedestrian is more likely to survive.  “Be particularly careful when you come across child pedestrians. “They may behave unpredictably, and may struggle to understand how quickly a vehicle is moving,” he said. He added that drinking and driving was being irresponsible and leaving the door open for disaster: “Crashes involving drivers and pedestrians under the influence are no accident. “Blood alcohol concentration tests on the bodies of people killed in road crashes show that, whether you are a pedestrian, cyclist or driver, your risk of dying in a road crash is higher if you have been drinking. Alcohol impairs processes critical to safe road use, such as vision and reaction time. It is also associated with poor judgement, and is often linked to other high-risk road use behaviours such as speeding or not using seatbelts,” he said. Provincial SAPS spokesperson, warrant officer Joseph Swartbooi said there would be nowhere to escape for criminals, with just over 1 000 new constables who were deployed to combat crime. Weekend Argus