Cape Town - A school in Delft may be the way of the future after it was built in eight weeks to make room for more pupils as our population grows and school drop-outs increase. The Western Cape Education Department together with the police and Community Policing Forum put on their thinking caps in October 2022 and by November 2, 2022, the ground work began at Rosendal Junior College. The new school will accommodate 450 Grade 8 pupils. They are now encouraging that more such schools are built in Cape Town in years to come. Reginald Maart, the chairperson of Roosendal SGB said: “I have approached the MEC and the Premier because we do need more models like this because we have many drop outs and children who are not placed in schools,” said Maart. This week, Maynier’s office announced that the new school year would see  35 872 teacher and 7 578 public service staff returning to the grounds for the arrival if over 1.2 million pupils. The Department spent R62 million on textbooks and R39m on stationery supplies and R50 million on furniture and R1.6 m on equipment. They confirmed by last year they had completed 212 complete classrooms. Kerry Mauchline, spokesperson for the Department said the school in Delft formed part of the Rapid School Build projects. Maynier previously stated that the project sought to bring together stakeholders and to build seven schools within six months to accommodate  32 00 pupils. The seven rapid schools included, Rivergate, Lwandle, Wallacedene, Hout Bay and Century City and will build 101 additional classrooms. This includes the new school built in Atlantis. Saxonsea Junior High School was built in just 65 days and cost R40 million to construct with nine classrooms, ablution facilities and a resource centre. “Saxonsea and the Delft (Roosendal) Build are both part of the rapid school programme announced by the Minister last year,” said Mauchline. “The two schools have 9 classrooms each with additional administrative and other facilities.  “They were completed at the end of last week.” Maart, who worked hard during his holidays to see the final brick being placed at the school in Delft said it took dedication and teamwork. “In October we as SGB and school management were approached for ground to build a Rapid school,” he said. “We met with the Stakeholders around the school, safety structures, WCED, police and CPF on October  27 2022 for the first site meeting to identify the suitable ground. “On November 2 groundwork started with GVK Ziyazama. “I would like to acknowledge the main contractor for an open and transparent process and to local Subcontractors in the Delft committee. “GVK also arranged workshops with local subcontractors to improve their skills. “It was a very good experience as a leader being part of this project. “I spent most of my holiday time from 6am until 8pm and sometimes weekends to make sure our unplaced and placed learners received quality education. “Our strong leadership, our principal, circuit manager and all from the WCED and everyone involved made it possible. Mauchline added that their classrooms were ready for hard work: “We have already completed 561 classrooms for the first day of school as a result of work continuing through the traditional builders’ holiday, with the remaining classrooms under way to be completed in the coming weeks. “We have made alternative arrangements to accommodate the learners while the final touches on additional classrooms are completed. “This includes using alternative rooms within the schools temporarily, such as halls and computer labs, with the teachers that were allocated to the new class in advance of the school year. “We are also looking at external venues where necessary, and in a small number of cases, schools will implement rotating timetables to ensure that learners can be accommodated. “We appeal to communities to support us in delivering the new schools and classrooms we will need, and I thank all the officials, government partners, contractors and school staff who are working tirelessly to get the job done.” As of January 2023 the Department also resolved 117 844, or 99.2%, of the Grade 1 and Grade 8 placement requests for the 2023 school year, and are in the process of placing 955, or 0.8%, of the Grade 1 and Grade 8 learners for the 2023 school year. Weekend Argus