Cape Town - Spreading the love this festive season by investing in the education and well-being of the needy in underprivileged communities is a local non-profit organisation’s mission. The organisation, Walk the Talk, is appealing to the public to celebrate these holidays by donating either school stationery or food parcels towards its charity drive aimed at alleviating poverty for struggling families in areas including Bishop Lavis. Founder Jacoba Hamman said: "Every year we have a Christmas party for about 100 kids, but we found that there are many organisations that  appeal for donations towards Christmas parties. This year we decided that instead of having a party that’s fleeting, we were going to opt for a stationery drive to assist those unemployed parents who cannot afford to buy stationery for their kids. “Anything would be welcome and anyone who has it in their means can donate. No amount is too small or too big. If you are in a better position to, please assist and help us to send these kids back to school with their dignity intact," said Hamman. She said 90% of people who frequent Walk the Talk’s soup kitchen were Sassa recipients, and were either elderly people or unemployed parents, and the money was usually spent in a few days after the payments were made. Gladys Minords, 65, lives with his unemployed son and five grandchildren. She said it was a relief to know that Walk the Talk was considering helping with back to school and groceries.  "I know Christmas parties are nice and kids love them so much, but I didn't mind not having one this year as our children’s education is more important. I really hope they get enough donations to help all of us. There are so many people in need in the community. With Sassa money you just feel like a million for that one day and then it’s gone; it’s not enough for all the family needs and we rely on soup kitchens for meals some days," said Minords. Grandmother of three children Hilda Sell, 68, said she was happy to know there would be food parcels too. “These are both important to us. You know it’s painful to send a child to school with no proper stationery, and even worse on an empty stomach. We all know you can’t focus if you’re starving and these are our future leaders, we hope they’ll take us out of this poverty one day. I plead with anyone who can, to please donate towards this drive,” Sell said. Although not limited to any specific items, the organisation is in need of flip files, glue sticks, toilet rolls, pens, pencils, erasers, rulers, plastic covers, crayons, printing papers, and food parcels with non-perishable items. For more information, the public is urged to call Jacoba Hamman at 079 485 3781.