Cape Town – Children live mostly in an imaginary world that turns to  reality as they get answers to the questions that run through their minds. The book “Tilly and Thandeka: The Butterfly Spy” is an example of that as it portrays two girls for whom a mystery becomes a reality when they manage to solve a big problem at a coastal museum. Written by Nicole Rimensberger and illustrated by Cristy Zinn, the book aims to teach children about problem-solving, trust and teamwork, the importance of asking for help in times of need – and with a bonus of learning about environmental conservation and terminology. Rimensberger described it as an old-fashioned mystery story that involves a race against time to save a rare butterfly. It is set at the KwaZulu-Natal coast where the girls’ suspicious instincts and trust in one another lead them to catch an unsuspecting spy at Tilly’s uncle’s workplace.  Tilly is an adventurous girl sent to live with an aunt who shares her sentiments. She meets an even more interesting intellectual uncle, Professor Mchunu, and a new friend Thandeka who embarks on a rare adventure in exposing the truth about secretive adults. The girls get an opportunity to explore the world of butterfly collecting at the museum when they suddenly get involved in a race against time to save a rare butterfly. “Tilly and Thandeka have a talent for solving mysteries,” says Rimensberger. “It's a page-turner with a strong message about the importance of conservation that is populated by South African characters within a familiar landscape. It helps children to see that adventures and mysteries don’t just happen to children in books or from overseas, but right at their doorstep too.  “I don’t believe in talking down to children so there is a bit of ‘scientific’ vocabulary included which is all explained in the beautiful glossary at the beginning.” After a long breathtaking quest to expose the spy, Ms Zondi, the book ends with the girls exposing her after getting help from Mondli, the discoverer of the threatened butterfly, who eventually manages to convince the trusting Professor Mchunu that his favourite colleague is actually working for their rival. Rimensberger closes the book stating that “Mondli, Professor Mchunu and the museum security guard burst into the Special Collection five minutes later – showing the power of teamwork and yet Mondli appreciates the girls’ good work. ‘And it’s all thanks to you two who didn’t stop even when things seemed impossibly difficult.’ The girls glowed with pride and they all smiled at each other. Then Mondli showed them the box. ‘Thank you for helping to save this rare butterfly’,” reads the book. Zinn says the main characters are brave, smart girls who work together to “outsmart the villains and save the day”. It’s a great read for someone who is still getting used to reading novels.  “When illustrating these books, Nicole and I worked closely to create the characters of Tilly and Thandeka and then I got to illustrate moments within the story to build out the world and give the young readers something visual to hold onto while they read,” Zinn adds. To find out how the spy managed to convince everyone she was the best for the job and how she got caught get the book at local bookshops or online at Ethnikids Africa for R120.