A 12-year-old girl from Mitchells Plain has been described as being beyond her age after she published a book of 25 poems which aims to inspire and motivate those suffering from depression or grieving the loss of a loved one, and those who feel they don’t belong. “Young Mind… Unspoken Thoughts: A collection of poems”, published by Tshienda Publications, is Leila’s first published book. Leila was raised to speak her mind, her truth and to flourish in what she loves. That is exactly what she decided to do this year when she put pen to paper, writing poems about topics including depression and death, the unspoken truths that adults hide from children, and the meaning of life or a mother’s love. It was Leila’s mother, Karen Alexander, an avid reader, who realised her child’s poetry was unique and powerful and decided to share it with the world. “She lost her grandmother and when it was the anniversary of her death, Leila began writing poems,” she said. “She brought me the first poem and when I read it, I was very impressed by her writing skills; it was mature and I was shocked because there was talent in her writing. “I attended a book fair and approached the poetry section and asked the poets and authors to read the drafts she had written and they were very impressed and I was introduced to the publisher, Haroldene Tshienda. “Her poetry sends a message and I began showing the writing to family because I am her mother and I wanted other’s people’s opinions. “She writes about the unspoken truths, the things adults choose not to discuss with children. “I have raised my children truthfully – when she asks me a question, I give her an answer. I look at my child as a person, not just a child. “Leila speaks her truths and will stand up to bullies and listen to opera, the violin and music genres from the 1960s even.” Leila said her journey began when she started putting her thoughts down on paper. “I’ve always been told I am an old soul. “When my grandmother died, I was very sad and I did not know how to express myself and that is how it all began,” she said. Tshienda said readers would be blown away by the 12-year-old’s maturity and the uniqueness of her writing. “I first met this beautiful tween at the Cape Flats book festival this year and she was interested in poetry,” she said. “I invited her to join our Poetry Vannie die Kaaps circle. “I think she is just born an artist because if you look on the cover of the book, it is designed and painted by her – even the inserts inside the book tell a story. “She has the brain of a young adult, not of what she has experienced, but of what she envisions, also what she notices in front of her. “Her work is like it is written by an adult. “The fights and internal fights we have, her book speaks of that, of hope also and not to give up hope and that parents need to start listening to our young people. “She believes art can heal our society and when I published her book, we did it in a month as it was so beautifully written. Below is an extract from one of Leila’s poems, “Silenced”: Depression is taken too lightly, like a bird who flaps their wings politely. You smile outside while dying inside – afraid to show yourself because the world judges  but alas we open up; the response is: ‘You’re dramatic’. Afraid to go, your shell too scared to speak, your mind trapped inside a pit of darkness that won't take a depart; connected with doubts and regrets.  If you want to find out more about the book, please email Karen Alexander on  KLAHaddon@gmail.com Weekend Argus