The Goedemoed Correctional Facility has banned the ownership of pit bulls for staff living on the premises. The decision follows a number of attacks on people by pit bulls across the country. The latest incident saw former Zambian national football star Philemon Mulala mauled to death by his two Staffie/pit bull-cross dogs and one unknown breed dog at his home in the North West. According to a statement issued by the Goedemoed  Correctional Facility, given the prevailing circumstances surrounding pit bull attacks, management has strongly sensitised and advised all pet owners, with effect of signing the directive, that no official based at Goedemoed residential areas will be allowed to adopt pit bulls as puppies or as an addition to their household. It also stated that the order was issued in good faith in the hopes that it will be understood as such and any non-compliance by any official would be severely dealt with. The SPCA has removed more than 150 pit bulls across the Free State. Spokesperson for the Department of Correctional Services Singabakho Nxumalo said they have rules and procedures for officials residing within its premises. He further said the matter of pit bulls was addressed with officials in an attempt to avert what was happening in the country. “We are also aware that a number of owners have been placing pit bulls with other people; therefore, the matter needed to be addressed as correctional facilities are closed places,” he said. Nxumalo told the “Weekend Argus” that officials who disagree with management decisions know fully of the channels available and how matters are elevated. Allan Perrins from the Animal Welfare Society (AWS) said that they would not object to pit bulls being kept as pets with a caveat that they be properly socialised, sterilised and do not present a danger to society. This would imply more stringent laws regarding ownership, and owners being held accountable for their failings. “If owners are in doubt as to the temperament of their dogs then we would propose that they surrender them to their nearest animal shelter. You cannot simply legislate the problem away, and we will never be supportive of a call for a ban of any breed or breed-specific legislation,” he said. AWS believes that dogs rarely attack without provocation and that most of the attacks involved dogs that had been deprived of the most basic of rights and needs. Weekend Argus