Cape Town – A discovery of abandoned cremated ashes at Sandy Bay in Hout Bay in the early hours of January 7 struck a controversial conversation on Facebook with uncertainties on how to deal with the situation. The confusion related to various anticipated reasons on how the boxes could have possibly ended up on the bushy dunes just outside the shore. They were found, by Aviv Pooth, who was doing his usual dog walk along the beach. "I saw this unusual sun reflection in between the small bushes and I wanted to see what it could have been. "A few cremation boxes. I couldn't believe it. I was shocked and for a moment thought it couldn't be. I gather myself and carefully investigated as I didn't want to tamper with them just in case a crime was committed. I realised they were actually cremation boxes with the remains still inside. "It was too far up to be washed up. There was a beer bottle next to the remains, and they where more or less disposed of without any sign of respect," Pooth explained. He posted on a community Facebook page asking for an advice and residents weighed in. Katie Griffiths commented: "Perhaps it was the deceased who wanted to have their final resting place there. Perhaps it was buried and the wind or tide washed it up?“ Ca Hicks wrote: "Strange… I would definitely suggest taking it to the police, last month someone had also found a mini casket with ashes in the bag close to Green point discarded on the lawn." Meanwhile, Cheryl McWilliams responded: "Shame. Thrown into the sea and washed up. Should have used biodegradable caskets." Iain Thomas also commented: "This definitely looks like someone robbed a house, took a bunch of what they thought were potentially jewellery boxes or something of value in them – and then discarded them when they discovered what they were. There might be a distraught family somewhere wondering where these are." Pooth later informed the Weekend Argus that a grieving family had contacted him and explained how their loved one's remains ended up on the dunes. "Apparently this woman lost so many people in a short space of time, including her husband and son. She had finally decided to discard the ashes but says she just couldn't. She told me it got to much for her and had a breakdown at the beach and went back home.  “She sounded like someone who still in a state and struggling to come to terms with the loss. It's a very sad story to hear, and the thought that she had to go back and collect them again is heartbreaking but at least they'll be disposed safely. I am glad the post helped." Murdock Ramathuba, national director for Environmental Health, advised that anyone coming into such situation to report to the police. "For safe keeping while they look for the family, and possible safe disposal thereafter. The normal process of opening a case with the police will suffice; the rest will follow the investigation outcomes." He said according to regulations relating to the management of human remains, promulgated under the Health Act, 2003 regulates this area. Regulations 16 to 19 states remains cannot be thrown anywhere haphazardly for aesthetic reasons. Ramathuba further explained that there were no anticipated health effects. The remains are completely combusted in the crematoria furnace and any pathogens would have been completely destroyed when the ashes comes out. "The exception will of course be if the remains are radioactive-contaminated remains, which will not be known in that case." Funeral parlours said it was rare to find that a family returned to report missing remains, saying normally it would be due to theft. "It is always advisable that families discard their loved ones immediately and proceed with the rituals later on to avoid any possible loss or tampering with the remains.  “I cannot imagine losing someone to death and then (also) losing the last thing you'd treasure for life. For those who wouldn't want to get rid of a loved one's remains, I'd suggest keeping them at a memorial park where they rent space and are able to visit them as they please. “Break-ins are our daily bread and remains are a one-off treasure you have of your dear person," said Edward Meiring from the SA Funeral Trust. Ian Vermeulen, an operations manager at Bay View Funerals, agreed with Meiring, saying it was good to invest and honour loved ones with cremation urn of choice but "rather be safe than sorry“.  “Make sure they are kept safely where no one can easily access them. The memorial parks are the best, or rather have a safe at home where you can keep them until you're ready to dispose them at a place of your choice, or as per the deceased's wish.” Heide Bresler has experience of losing her father-in-law's remains in 2017 when their home in Johannesburg was raided during a housebreaking.  "It's a horrible experience, you never get closure. I would suggest to safely dispose of the remains as soon as you can because once you lose them there isn't much can be done to retrieve them.  “You always wonder where they could have possibly landed. In our case we were still busy with paper work as we wanted to dispose of his remains at Mount Kilimanjaro in Kenya, his place of birth." The City of Cape Town said the regulation of disposal of the remains were enforced by the national government. Captain FC van Wyk, the provincial police spokesperson, confirmed no criminal case had been recorded pertaining the discovered remains.