Cape Town - The parents of two Muslim learners who were prevented from entering their classrooms because they wore trousers under their school uniforms said the matter was peacefully resolved and condemned harmful social media attacks targeting Goodwood Park Primary School and staff. An urgent meeting was called with the parents, school governing body (SGB) and the school’s principal on Friday afternoon. The siblings, aged 9 and 12, were initially prevented from entering their classrooms on Wednesday morning for wearing pants with their school dresses in an effort to conform to Islamic dress. The learners were later allowed to enter their classrooms. The SGB had made concessions for Muslim students including wearing of a headscarf/burqa and stockings.  However, the family did not feel that the stockings were adequate and had attempted to raise this with the SGB and principal since last year. In a statement, parents Yunus and Nabeweyah Keraan said the meeting had been fruitful and that a resolution benefiting the wider community had been reached. “We would also take the opportunity of apologising to innocent people who have unfortunately been slandered, blamed, shamed and called racist directly via media. This is totally uncalled for and defeats our plight of building a better future within the community,” the parents said. “It was never our intention to cause disrepute for an obviously good school. I was just looking for help to get an audience to address our situation. We as a family definitely distance ourselves from anything untrue and slanderous, or any incitement against anybody at the school.” Western Cape Education Department spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said the department was aware of threats made against the staff and school following a social media post. “This case is an example of how social media can conflate and manipulate a scenario without first obtaining the facts or fully understanding the context of the incident. It can lead to dangerous consequences.  “Our teachers and public service staff are real people too, with families and friends and communities. Social media shaming and threats of this nature are unacceptable and can affect their safety and mental well-being.” Hammond said the SGB had co-operated fully with the parents. On Friday, a small group of people consisting of Al Jama-ah Party members protested outside the school. In a statement, the school thanked the parents for bringing to their attention possible shortcomings. “We will strive to address and improve any shortcomings in our pursuit of excellence,” it said. shakirah.thebus@inl.co.za Cape Argus