Cape Town - Following the recent scourge of beach closures in the Western Cape, Mayor Geordin Hill-Lewis visited Strand beach, one of the affected facilities affected by the sewage spills yesterday, to observe various initiatives implemented to ensure the public and visitors safely enjoyed the beaches this festive season. Capetonians had recently been shaken by the closure of at least four beaches in one week resulting in citizens calling to the City to swiftly find solutions to the alleged root cause - the sewage spills and improve the conditions, making all public places accessible. "The number of major sewage spills onto beaches is worrying, hopefully the City is urgently implementing measures to manage the negative effects of long term load shedding. Many beaches like Hout Bay, Strand, and Clovelly are also affected by long term poor water quality, and plans to improve the water quality need to be communicated and actioned urgently with councillors being held responsible for oversight,“ said Milnerton Central Residents' Association environmental head, Caroline Marx. She said swimming in water contaminated by sewerage can cause gastroenteritis, ear, skin, eye and respiratory tract infections, as well as diseases such as hepatitis and typhoid, fungal infections and intestinal worm infections. Marx spoke shortly after the City announced the reopening of three beaches that had been closed due to sewage spills. A section of Gordon’s Bay beach between the walkway and area in front of Spur remained closed, while Fish Hoek beach, Strand Beach and Small Bay in Blaauwberg were gradually reopened between January 3 and 4. "The temporary closure is due to a sewer overflow in the area related to a sewer pump station that tripped because inappropriate materials had been thrown into the local sewer network yet again. City Health will be taking water samples on a daily basis for water quality testing until such time as the levels are within the minimum requirement for recreational activities as determined by the National Water Quality Guidelines," read the statement. An environmental activist and a local entrepreneur, Zoe Prinsloo, said: "The fact that these beaches were closed due to the ineffectiveness of our City's sewage systems is very upsetting. It feels like we are fighting the war on pollution from every side now, and sewage spills are something we should not have to worry about. More people need to be aware of our water quality as people are getting sick. We need to be able to rely on the City to deal with infrastructure and maintenance," said Prinsloo. Mayco member for Community Services and Health, Patricia Van der Ross, said the City Health has not received any reports from patients regarding either drinking water or water for recreational activities as a cause of diarrhoea or any other health concerns thus far and has advised anyone showing suspicious symptoms to seek medical help. Meanwhile, ActionSA's Western Cape Provincial Chairperson, Michelle Wasserman, added: "Reports are showing that the Western Cape tourism industry has recovered from the devastating effects of Covid-19. It is absolutely essential that those involved in tourism are given every opportunity to rebuild what they have lost,“ said Wasserman. The City said a multi-disciplinary team ensured responsive management to incidents amidst heightened load-shedding on sewer infrastructure, including professionals representing Environmental Management, Coastal Management, Water and Sanitation, City Health, Recreation and Parks, Law Enforcement and Urban Waste Management. Hill-Lewis explained, "It is good to see Strand beach looking lively today after a section was temporarily closed due to an electrical fault at a sewer pump station. Sustained load shedding continues to impact City infrastructure, as does discharge of foreign items into the sewer system. Where these incidents occur, we put safety first by effecting temporary precautionary closures until water quality results show it is safe for recreational use. Quick responses from our teams has enabled us to keep 99% of our coastline open and safer for all at any time. He confirmed that public pools and other facilities remain safe.