A Macassar single mom is spearheading efforts to help help raise R420 000 for seven boys to represent South Africa in the under-18 touch rugby squad at the Atlantic Cup Tournament in England. The global event is set to take place in July this year. The group of seven boys from Macassar and Strand will make up the 18-strong under-18 squad selected to represent South Africa.  Each player will have to fork out R60 000 to cover flights, accommodation, kit, and medical and other fees. Cheryl Swartland, 42, said she could not afford to fund the travel costs of her son, Ethan, and six of his friends herself, and is asking the public to lend a helping hand. “We are doing everything our side with fundraisers, but it’s still not enough,” she said. Swartland said they had been hosting karaoke sessions, selling food, and holding dance events to raise the funds, but they had not generated enough funds.  “I need my son to have this opportunity,” she added. Ethan said he was grateful to have been selected for the team, as it had been a dream for him and his teammates to play rugby while representing their country. “This is my dream come true. Ever since I was six years old, it has been my dream to play in green and gold,” said the 17-year-old Macassar resident. Ronelda Dampie said her son Ronaldo was first chosen in 2019 to represent the country at a tournament in Manchester, but was unable to go owing to Covid-19 travel restrictions.  The single mother said she was determined to make her son’s dream come true this year.  “This is my son’s dream since he was a little boy. He eats, drinks and sleeps rugby.” Another parent, Anthea Lewis, said her son, Cayden, was also looking forward to playing in the upcoming tournament. “I would like to (help him) fulfil his dream of attending this wonderful opportunity, and hopefully he will become a leader in our community and be a inspiration to others who come from disadvantaged families.” The team’s coach, Labeeb Levy, said he was excited for the boys to have an opportunity to play on the international stage. “For me as a coach, to see young players from disadvantaged communities make it into the international scene and compete against the best in the world is fulfilling,” he said. “Years of dedication and sacrifice and hard work have brought them to this point.” In a letter sent to parents earlier this month informing them about their children’s selection, the South African Touch Association highlighted the work it did in assisting young players to compete, but added that raising funds was up to parents, as the association did not receive any national subsidies. The association said it would assist players with relevant documentation required, adding that an account had been created to manage any donations given and sponsorships undertaken. Those wishing to assist have been requested to get in touch with Kristy Hall via email on secretary@sata.co.za, or to call 079 516 7387. Weekend Argus