Teen Tayla Prince’s green fingers inspired her to begin her blooming business Tayla’s Seedlings. The small business grows vegetables and herbs from seeds which she nurtures into seedlings. She then sells them for people to plant in their gardens. The 13-year-old budding entrepreneur from Wellington said her dream was to make the world a greener place.  “One seed, one plant at a time. Together we can do it,” she said.  When you talk to Prince, her excitement and drive to grow her business is immediately noticeable.  "I really wanted a laptop three years ago, and my dad said the only way it could happen was if I could raise money to pay for half of it." While she was working in her parents' garden one day, she had a bright idea. She decided to plant seeds in foam cups, nurture them until they were seedlings and then sell them to family and friends to generate money. "I had R200 with which I bought a six-pack plant tray, sand and seeds. I started with tomatoes. I sold all six and used the money I got back to buy even more pots, sand and seeds," she explained. What started as just six plants has now blossomed to over 100 plants grown per month. And instead of just tomatoes, she plants a number of vegetables and a variety of herbs. She also rents a piece of land from a farmer not too far from her home because her parents' braai room and garage have become much too small for her business. The budding entrepreneur also sells different garden equipment. "I honestly didn't think that my business would grow like this. Some months are quiet and then there are others that are very busy,“ she added.  And when Prince is not busy with her plants, the Grade 8 learner is busy with her school or charity work. One of the people she helped through her charity work is Janien Cronjé, 23, from Paarl. Cronjé lost her leg due to cancer and had to get a prosthetic leg. According to Cronjé, Prince approached her and offered to help raise funds for the prosthetic leg, including asking her own clients to make donations.  "It meant so much to me. She is so young yet so driven. She has already had such great success with Tayla’s Seedlings. She is an inspiration to everyone. We then also held a walk to collect funds and put the money together, and I got my leg,“ Cronjé added. Prince also donates some of her seedlings to different homes to plant in their gardens. When asked about her determination to give back to the community and those in need, Prince said she believed in paying things forward.  "Each one teaches one. And when you live with an open hand and heart, good things always come back to you," she said.  Prince hopes to one day study to become a cardiologist, expand her business even more and start a nursery.  "In doing this, I can still make the world a greener place, and I will also be able to create jobs for people in the community and help even more people." Prince's mother, Bronwyn Fisher, 38, said it was important for parents to support their children even if the ideas they come up with sound a little far-fetched at times. "Help and support them. A child who has the courage to share his/her plans with you is a happy child,“ she explained. Fisher said it was especially important in our current economic climate for children to learn financial independence from an early age.  "The sooner the better. An informed child makes informed decisions." Weekend Argus