From security personnel on foot and motorbikes to upgraded security systems, local malls went over an above to ensure the safety of crowds over the festive season.  Tyger Valley Mall has said this particular festive period (2022) had been its busiest since the outbreak of Covid-19. It said that SAPS had been doing regular patrolling during the festive period in the mall.  Tygervalley also said there had been no crime reported yet this festive season. Head of communications at V&A Waterfront Donald Kau declined to share detailed measures of security but assured this publication that measures were in place. “The V&A manages a comprehensive security operation with security personnel on foot, motorbikes and vehicles including armed and fast response, as well as CCTV and other measures to ensure that our visitors are able to enjoy a pleasant experience of our neighbourhood,” he said. GrandWest PR manager Elouise Matthys said the shopping complex took the security of visitors very seriously and regularly evaluated and upgraded its security capability and technology. “The season has been a busy one but we had no incidents. We anticipated an increase in footfall to the complex this festive season so we made sure that our security presence was very visible. Our personnel are also trained to be interactive and proactive,” said Matthys. Canal Walk’s general manager, Gavin Wood,  said the mall welcomed more than 2 million visitors over the December period, and had seen positive trading leading up to Christmas. “Despite the additional footfall, security issues have been well controlled through the use of CCTV monitoring, undercover guards and the strategic placement of additional personnel onsite,” said Wood. “Canal Walk prides itself on its strong collaborative policing strategy incorporating various security specialist service providers and close relationships with the local SAPS and the Century City Property Owners Association control room. This has resulted in a well controlled and cohesive law enforcement capability to ensure the safety and security of all our tenants and customers,” he said.