Cape Town - As part of commemorating Struggle veteran Jakes Gerwel’s legacy the Jakes Gerwel Foundation launched its writers programme on his birthday, January 18. They have called for South African authors to take advantage of the opportunity which will be a three-week mentorship programme in Somerset East in the Eastern Cape between June 5 and 25. The mentorship is aligned with promotion of literature and creating equality in the academic sphere as per the strong beliefs of the late Professor Gert Johannes “Jakes” Gerwel.  He played a significant role along with the likes of the South Africa’s first black president, the late Nelson Mandela in fighting apartheid. He occupied key positions in governance such as Director-General of the Presidency after the country gained its freedom. The foundation was established after his passing in 2012, and the venue for the mentorship is in his birth home. “But he was such a humble person, that we do not want to put the professor on a pedestal or link every single programme to his name. We much rather want to continue believing in and contributing to a country that he and Madiba and so many other fought for,” said Theo Kemp, the director at foundation. “We want to grant writers the opportunity to write uninterruptedly. Most writers have to do so many different jobs, and run a household, and therefore do not have the time to write. With this programme we want to give them the space and the silence to focus. However, it is important that we also create a space where writers from different backgrounds can share their thoughts, and in the process learn from each other. The Jakes Gerwel Foundation believes that by investing in writers from all genres, and in unlocking of the talents of emerging writers, we contribute to a representative literature where voices are heard, especially those voices from still disadvantaged communities. By doing so, we want people to read and get to know their fellow South Africans, and also for writers to go back to their communities as role models,” he explained. The participants will be guided on how to improve  their own manuscripts. Kemp said the mentorship is one of their honorary initiatives they host in Gerwel’s remembrance, including an annual Jakes Gerwel series of discussions at the Suidoosterfees in Artscape, and a Jakes Gerwel Lecture. Bonisani Sibeko will be among the six participants and he said he was honoured by the opportunity and hopes the mentorship takes his writing to the next level. He revealed that he'd be working on his book titled The Hitman’s Sangoma. “I’m looking forward to seeing how far I can push my abilities as a storyteller and meeting different writers with different perspectives, ideas and approaches to the writing process,” said Sibeko. Alexander Marshall, who had his chance in 2021 added that, “The Paulet House experience left an indelible mark on my writer’s mind. The venue, with its large grounds, the camaraderie developed between fellow writers, the intensity of the contact sessions with your editor, and the utter delight when you see a fellow writer had a book accepted, and published, are some of the wonderful memories of a stay at Paulet House. I learnt about the hidden processes leading to eventually placing the manuscript before the publishers.” All participating writers are expected to submit their scripts by March 17.