Schools are soon opening in the Western Cape and parents are moving from shop to shop for back-to-school necessities, including stationery. According to stationery lists from various schools in Cape Town, parents will not spend anything less than R1 300 on stationery this year. The stationery list for a Grade 9 learner at Manzomthombo Senior Secondary School in Mfuleni includes six hard-cover books, two Pritt glue sticks, four packs of photocopy papers, highlighters, calculator, mathematical instrument and writing materials.  Linda Mankayi, a parent from Manzomthombo Senior Secondary School in Mfuleni, complained about the price of the stationery. She said public schools should provide stationery for the learners because most of the children studying in public schools come from disadvantaged households. “Things are expensive these days. I had to spend R1 000 on stationery alone for a Grade 9 leaner and I still need to buy him new shoes and a jersey. The government should look out for the poor and meet us halfway,” said Mankayi. Mankayi works as a security guard and she said that the money she earns a month is not enough to cater for her needs. Neziwe Xanko, an unemployed mother from Samora Machel, said her daughter is doing Grade 1 this year and she cannot afford to buy everything she will need for school. “This time of the year can be very stressful, especially for unemployed parents like me. I still need R700 more to buy the rest of the things my child will need next week and I don’t know where I am going to get that amount of money, but a plan will come up because I want all my kids to go to school,” she said.  It is a different story for some parents. Zameka Mtheza from Portlands High School in Mitchells Plain said she bought stationery in December when she was shopping for Christmas. “I know I am a big spender, which is why decided to buy everything in December so that I do not have to worry about back-to-school in January. My daughter is doing Grade 12 this year and she has everything she will need for school for the whole year.” Humanitarian organisation Gift of the Givers will come to the rescue for some parents by donating stationery packs to a number of schools this year. Chairperson and founder of Gift of the Givers Foundation, Dr Imtiaz Sooliman, confirmed that they will be distributing stationery packs to several schools. “As an organisation, Gift of the Givers is committed to improving education in South Africa through our bursaries and school infrastructure interventions. We know that providing basic needs like stationery and uniforms is a critical component of giving students the tools they need to succeed in the classroom,” he said.