Cape Town - Some Capetonians have taken to social media to raise suspicions of seawater being infectious following a couple of beach closures recently. This comes after the City of Cape Town announced the reopening of Kalk Bay and Dalebrook tidal pool near False Bay yesterday. The pools were closed for more than 24 hours along with the beach section in between them and the Llandudno beach in Hout Bay, which remains closed. According to the City the closure was due to a sewage spill. “There was an overflow from a sewer pump station after an ultrasonic level sensor became faulty due to a power surge caused by load shedding. This sensor has been replaced. The overflow has stopped. This sensor helps to measure the sump (storage) levels at the pump station so that pumps can be switched on or off automatically to help manage the flow of sewage through this site. The City continues to monitor this situation. This is a precaution as contact with the water could result in potential gastrointestinal issues and therefore any person who enters the water does so at their own risk,” read the statement. A citizens, Madeline Leinberg posted on the Dalebrook tidal pool Facebook page: “Just a heads-up, my daughter’s boyfriend landed up in hospital for nearly a week on a drip with an abdominal infection caused by swimming at and Brass Bell tidal pool. The doctor said it’s most likely from sewage spills. He will still experience pain for the next two weeks. Quite a story. Thought it worthwhile sharing." Another beachgoer, Karen Wildschut Giumelli commented: “Yip, closed. We were also a bit sick right at the beginning.” Some Facebook users were shocked by the quick reopening and questioned the reasons for the closure.  Rachel Moore took the liberty to explain: “I read a very long explanation study of this. The sewage would normally go through many processes before being pumped out a few km into the ocean. The sewage in this instance is because of pump failure from load shedding. Then it backs up in the pipes and has no where to go and then leaks out into the stormwater drain which feeds into the sea. That is a simple explanation.  The salt water does disperse and break it down but it depends how bad it is and how the tides are etc. as to how it disperses.” “The City’s health directorate will be taking water samples on a daily basis for water quality testing until such time as the levels are within the minimum requirement for recreational activities as determined by the National Water Quality Guidelines. The public is advised to avoid contact with the water in this beach section until further notice. Health warning signage remains in place, advising the public accordingly,” advised the City. Asked whether the Western Cape Department of Health was aware of any sicknesses linked to the spills reported, spokesperson Mark van der Heever said none have been reported to the Health Department. This followed a few days after Fish Hoek beach, Strand Beach and Small Bay in Blaauwberg were reopened last week, leaving Gordon’s Bay still under investigation.