Johannesburg - “A small body and a short height does not mean you are not capable of doing great things,” says Sandiso Mahlangu, 17. Mahlangu is a learner at De La Salle Holy Cross College in Johannesburg. He did his matric in 2022 and plans on studying political science at the University of Cape Town. Mahlangu told The Star  that he struggled because of his small stature which affected him psychologically and emotionally, so much so that he tried to be everyone’s friend to escape being bullied or mocked. But his parents and school encouraged him to love himself the way he was and allow his talents to flow. "I was always scared of being me, and that affected me. It’s something that I want other learners to know that it’s not about your height or how you look physically; God made us different for a reason," Mahlangu said. Mahlangu has received more than 20 certificates from his school over the years and is one of the pioneers of basketball at Holy Cross. He said he never thought he would be an excellent student because of the negative comments from people over the years. "In Grade R, my parents were told that I was bad at English and that they needed to keep me in Grade R, but my parents refused, and in Grade 9, I was doing badly in academics because I wanted to focus on sports, but my school helped me through that. I have taken some knocks, but I have never given up," Mahlangu said. Mahlangu was born in Soweto and had lived with his grandmother there, in between staying with his parents in the suburbs. He said this gave him insight into the differences between middle-class people, and those struggling in the townships. "I think that is why I want to study political science because I am interested in matters of social justice, and that can empower me to ensure that we live in a balanced world," he said. According to Mahlangu, his Catholic school education was the best because he had been exposed to theological concepts as well as issues of morality, and social justice. "Everything begins with God and the rest follows; it’s important that we should study so that we are able to help others and change society," he said. Mahlangu said his dream was to make his parents and grandmother proud, and show other young people who had issues with their physical appearance that they could still become the best they could be in life. The Star