An Atlantis teenage golfer scored himself a hole-in-one opportunity after he was awarded a scholarship to Durbanville High School. Quwin Botha began his academic year on a high when he moved to Durbanville this week to begin a new journey – all because of his prowess on the green and his determination to excel both in the sport and academically.  For the 16-year-old, opportunities were scarce and the future bleak after having grown up in a gang-infested part of Atlantis. However, the young man knew there was so much more in store for him than getting involved in gangs and drugs. And that’s exactly why, by the time he was eight years old, he was running towards the golf course rather than the street corners.  “‘You become who you surround yourself with’ is a saying I grew up with. It’s a lesson that my grandfather imprinted in my head every day, and today I don’t regret listening to and obeying his wise words.” The Grade 11 learner said he was grateful for the exciting opportunity and was treating it as a new chapter in his life.  “I (attended) Saxonsea High School last year, and this year I am here (at Durbanville High School) and in residence. This is just the beginning for me, and I can't wait to see what else I will accomplish,” he said.  At the age of eight, Botha met his coach, Shawn Conrad, on the golf course.  What started out as a child just hitting a few balls quickly turned into a full-scale training programme, because Conrad saw Botha had talent.  “Already at the time you could see from his demeanour that Quwin was on to something, and then I started working with him. And look where he is today,” said Conrad. Conrad has been coaching Botha for the past seven years. He proudly said Quwin gladdened the hearts of many Atlantis residents.  “I’m over the moon, not just about his latest achievements, but about the consistent commitment he has showed facing all the social difficulties he has had to face. His willpower to succeed and achieve the goals and objectives he set for himself says a lot about his character. In short, he is a living example of human perseverance achieving success against all odds.” Botha laughed and said his opponents had not paid much attention to him at the beginning.  “And look now – now they don't want to play against me. I am committed to the sport and work hard to refine my techniques,” he said.  The young man added that his dream for his future was either to play or coach golf professionally.  “Golf opened doors for me that would never have opened otherwise.” “I am still far from where I want to be, but this is a big step in that direction. The possibilities are endless. Be on the lookout,” he said. Botha expressed his gratitude to his coach and his grandparents who raised him. “If it wasn’t for them, I wouldn't have made it this far, and I just want to thank them for believing in me and still supporting and pushing me.” His grandfather, Daniel Matthys, 62, told the Weekend Argus he was bursting with pride at the teenager’s achievements.  He explained that, although they could not always fully support Quwin because they were pensioners, they helped where they could. “We are grateful to his coach for the work he has done and will continue to do with our child. We are excited about Quwin’s future.” Weekend Argus