A former Cape karate champion is determined to change perceptions around what a healthy and fit body looks like - one kick and punch at a time. Eerste River resident Coral Jacobs swapped her karate whites for gym wear when she founded her fitness club CJKarobics, where she teaches body-positive fitness goals. The 38-year-old started the club in 2017 with the aim of getting people fit, healthy and comfortable in their bodies - no matter their shape or size. There’s nothing you can tell Jacobs about body positivity and being the odd one out. She has been involved in sports all her life, and she said she was always the one others looked down on because she was a little “bigger” than the other athletes.  “One does not have to be built a certain way to be healthy and fit. We need to start changing the narrative.” At the age of three, Jacobs joined her first karate club, and at five-years-old, she entered her first competition.  “Karate has been part of my life for as long as I can remember. I competed throughout my teenage years, and at the age of 21, my professional career as a karateka began.”  At the height of her career, Jacobs said her schedule became hectic as she trained three times a day, six days a week, all while working full-time at Metrorail. “It became more and more difficult to prepare for tournaments,” she explained. She said the pressure she felt from fellow competitors, and the criticism over her body type was an added stress.  “I always told them not to underestimate me because even though I’m chubby, I’m healthy and fit. I have won numerous competitions, and I can stand my ground.” She said the pressure to look a certain way in order to participate was an issue that not only plagued athletes but society as a whole. “We all don't have to look like the models on magazine covers.” In 2010, Jacobs was one of three women who won medals for South Africa at the 13th African karate championships held in Cape Town. After a few years of representing South Africa on the international stage, Jacobs decided to retire in 2014 and began to accumulate funds in order to start her own fitness club, where she teaches ‘karobics’ - a combination of karate and aerobics. She said she wanted to create a space where people felt comfortable to walk in and work on their health and fitness. “It's not so much about results for me, but seeing how my clients’ self-confidence grow the longer they stay at CJKarobics. How they become healthy, hype up and empower one another and actually enjoy the classes. They are happy about being fit,” she said. Mary-Jane Abels, 31, has been part of CJKarobics for the past three years after her friend dragged her along. “The fitness club became my second home, and from the very first day, I felt comfortable. I was at another gym before and could never find my place there. Never find something that captivated or motivated me to do more.” Abels said at first she didn't notice that she had lost weight because one of the cardinal rules at the club was to avoid the scale. “I went from a size 38 to a 34, and it motivated me to keep going for even more results. I feel good. I look good. I’m happy and healthy, and my confidence is booming!” Jacobs added that her goal was to ensure that every member came and left the gym with an improved outlook on their fitness journey. “Whether you’re 60 or 16 years old, I want you to know that you are more than welcome. Who knows, you might walk out a size smaller, healthier, happier and have loads of self-confidence.” Weekend Argus