Education activists and organisations are concerned at the increase in burglary and vandalism cases in Western Cape schools over the festive period. Ian Cameron from Action Society said these ongoing school burglaries and vandalism are concerning. “It’s becoming a nationwide problem in schools and what is more concerning is that often than not, there does not seem to be consequences for those who break in and vandalise in schools. It seems as if cases of vandalism in schools are never followed up,” he said. Cape Town activist Clive Jacobs said that vandalism in schools has been an ongoing issue since the dawn of democracy in South Africa and said it will not stop overnight. “Some schools have no security systems.  The government needs to go back to basics to restore what was taken away, securities and night patrols. The minister of education must step up her game,” he said. The Western Cape education department confirmed that it had subsidies for holiday security at 439 schools. According to the department, this past festive season has seen bathroom fixtures, water piping, water pumps and meters, drain covers, fencing, windows and doors, computers, IT and audio-visual equipment and cabling, lights and electrical equipment, kitchen appliances and tools, bicycles, garden tools, and consumables like toilet paper and black bags being the most stolen items in schools. “Forty-eight incidents of burglary and/or vandalism affecting 42 schools were nonetheless reported during the holiday period. This is an increase from the 41 incidents affecting 34 schools reported during the previous end-of-year holidays. “Even fencing, security guards, and cameras were not enough to stop criminals from sabotaging our children’s education,” the department said. The department does not have an amount of the damages as yet and expressed disappointment that it will once again spend large sums of its budget on repairs when it could be spending on the needs of learners. The department confirmed that arrests were made to some of the incidents and that they will continue to monitor the progress of these cases. “We again make this appeal to the public: do not underestimate your ability to thwart crime in our schools. Reporting any suspicious activity in the vicinity of our schools to South African Police Service (SAPS) or the Safe Schools hotline (0800 45 46 47) immediately can make all the difference in apprehending the perpetrators and recovering stolen property. “If you see something, speak up. There must be no place where the criminals targeting our schools can hide,” the department said.