According to Agri Western Cape CEO Jannie Strydom, the Western Cape has been heavily affected by the wildfire season, which has resulted in many farmers losing hundreds of hectares each year. Over 70 days between November 1, 2022, and January 9, the Cape Winelands District Municipality (CWDM), which is one of the major farming regions in the province, responded to 478 fires – six per day. “Even though fire season is a worrisome time for farmers, the Western Cape government, provincial disaster management and other regional organisations are vigilant and extremely competent. Many precautions are also set in place by farmers, who are in close contact with local firefighting teams,” said Strydom. According to CWDM spokesperson Jo-Anne Otto, it was difficult to provide exact figures for resources used to combat fires at this time. “R1.9 million was spent on air resources alone. A further R271 000 was spent on ground teams. This excludes our operational costs such as fuel, maintenance of equipment, etc.,” said Otto. She said with regard to the cause of fires, in general, the CWDM would investigate the cause of fire if requested to do so by landowners or if arson was suspected. She said that according to CapeNature, 95% of fires are caused by humans, and the majority of these are accidental. “Sometimes the evening breeze, which offers much relief from the day’s heat, is just enough to reignite the coals left by a group of people who had spent the day braaing and socialising there. Although the fire looked as if it had completely died out and the group made use of dedicated braai facilities, the evening breeze may be just enough to fan the left-over coals and cause sparks to land on a nearby bush, causing a fire,” said Otto. She said this is why they were urging people who were planning to spend some time in one of the many CWDM venues across the Cape Winelands District on hot days, to pack a picnic basket rather than a braai, even when braai facilities were available, and to always extinguish a braai fire thoroughly. Otto said the CWDM Fire Services worked closely with CapeNature and the Winelands Fire Protection Association (FPA) and through these relationships, the CWDM ensured that both agricultural and natural resources were protected. The five main causes of wildfires include discarded cigarette butts, cooking on open fires, burning of debris, and lightning.