Cape Town – According to scenario modelling done by SA Canegrowers, phases 4–6 of continuous load shedding will cost growers more than R723 million in 2023, and stages 6-8 could cost the industry more than R1.8 billion. Chairman of SA Canegrowers (SAC) Andrew Russell said with milling giant Tongaat Hulett in business rescue, and the destructive Health Promotion Levy already hampering the industry, these losses are potentially catastrophic for growers and the industry’s workers. He said the SAC is therefore appealing to the government to put short-term measures in place to mitigate the impact of load shedding on growers while long-term solutions are considered. “Load shedding affects 1 135 irrigated growers who employ more than 10 000 workers. An estimated 34% of South Africa’s sugar cane is produced in irrigated areas including Komatipoort and Malelane in Mpumalanga, and Pongola in KwaZulu-Natal,” said Russel. He said growers are expected to incur more than R189 million in additional energy costs in 2023 on account of the disruption to irrigation schedules. “Most irrigated growers in KwaZulu-Natal and Mpumalanga operate on a Ruraflex system which allows them to pay a lower tariff for operating during low-demand times. But the converse also applies – growers pay a significantly higher rate for pumping during peak-demand times. As a result of load shedding, growers have been forced to irrigate whenever electricity is available, regardless of demand,” he said. Russel added that in addition to the increased cost of energy, growers also face yield losses as they have fewer hours of continuous energy supply. Growers need a minimum of six hours of continuous energy for proper irrigation. As a result of the intermittency of the power supply disrupting irrigation, irrigated growers will lose up to 40% of water capacity. The resulting loss of yield could amount to more than R723 million. “SA Canegrowers is therefore appealing to Eskom and government to help the industry in particular, as well as the broader agricultural sector, to find urgent solutions to mitigate the impact of load shedding. Some of the short-term measures SA Canegrowers has asked government to consider include restricting load shedding to stage 4 in irrigated cane-growing areas during peak watering season; diesel rebates for growers utilising generators; and tax rebates for those investing in alternative energy sources,” he said