FROM using 2-litre bottles as piggy banks to stokvels or starting grocery schemes, ordinary South Africans buckling under tough economic times are finding innovative ways to save money. On New Year’s resolutions to get in shape, healthy eating, travel and study, South Africans have added saving money. Professor Raymond Parsons of the North-West University Business School said the latest economic data showed that consumer spending, which contributed to 60% of the total spending, was beginning to slacken. Stellenbosch resident Msa Bunguzana, 32, said he puts coins into bottles at home and deposits the money into his savings or investment accounts once full. “I don’t have specific goals (on how much to save). All coins I come back home with go to the bottles. I’m planning to invest monthly this year. “Whichever way you want to save money, you must have a plan and then commit to it using discipline, which is easy to achieve if the plan is clear.” Founder of the popular stockpiling Facebook group, 1 Family, 1 Stockpile, Ncumisa Ndelu highlighted the challenges facing consumers as they set out their goals to start saving money. “Part of the problem is that people are not making enough money to be able to save, however, my group teaches women how to buy correctly and (how to) stockpile, which saves a lot of money,” said Ndelu. She encouraged consumers to shop around for options and consider different brands when making their purchases. Users also post money-saving challenges for the beginning of the year. One user committed to saving R2 400 in January, each month, the amount decreased to R200 in December, but the total saving is R15 600. Other users suggested saving as little as R5 a day to save R1 825 by year end or up to R50 a day to save R18 250. Consumer debt expert Moeshfieka Botha said people should know the objectives for their savings before setting up a plan. Botha added that foregoing luxuries in favour of setting up an emergency savings fund was a good way to start. “Change your mindset about material goods defining your worth. We live in a time of flashy pictures, influencers and aggressive product marketing. We need to step back from all the hype and evaluate what is important in our lives,” said Botha. She also encouraged people to set up automatic transfers to savings accounts and research investment opportunities. “Insert a savings element into your budget and automate your savings. For example, most banking apps can automate the transfer of money from the account into which your salary is paid to a savings account,” added Botha. The National Stokvel Association of South Africa has also warned people to be cautious when considering saving plans and pyramid schemes. The association said people should be able to spot a pyramid scheme when there are promises to deliver an unreasonable return on investment, overnight profits or income based on the ability to recruit by relying on recruitment without meetings with actual members.