Cape Town - Just ahead of the start of the 2023 academic year, a Bishop Lavis-based multi-purpose non-profit organisation is travelling to disadvantaged communities across the province, helping prospective students apply for financial aid and sort out Home Affairs issues. Wesley Moodley, the founder of Centre of Excellence, said the aim is to get underprivileged individuals access to tertiary education and for drop-outs to further their studies while making sure they have the correct documentation. "Although we have shifted into a technological world, not everyone has the privilege to access the internet, and, unbelievably, there's still young adults who have never used a computer or owned a proper smartphone, which makes opportunities so limited to them. They lack knowledge and support system, which is why, over the years, the Centre has grown to servicing not just our surroundings but rather go to where the need is. "While educational opportunities and poverty remain bizarre to them, you'll find some struggling with their documentation. And this doesn't only affect youths but all citizens. Hence, we incorporated our educational programme with personal documentation, mostly focusing on setting up Home Affairs appointments online. He said they have received a positive response and have so far helped about 1 000 applicants across the province.  "It gives me joy to see that despite their challenges, youths in the Flats, farms, informal settlements are striving to break the chain of poverty," Moodley said. Among other areas, he said they helped applicants in Beaufort West, Colesberg, Khayelitsha, and they will go to Ceres tomorrow, then Vredendal on the West Coast on January 20, followed by Vredenburg the following day and Atlantis on January 28. The organisation relies on donations and annual subsidy funding to do its outreach. "Travelling is our biggest challenge as we do not have our own car," said Moodley. Anastasia Thys from Bonteheuwel is one of the applicants who is looking forward to studying Human Resources Management at the College of Cape Town. "I have always wanted to study but had no finances. I recently learned about the services offered at the Centre, and I went. It was so quick and easy. I couldn't believe it when I received a notification that my application was successful. This will be a dream come true for me," Thys said. Tamryn Joseph was recommended by a friend in 2020 when she wanted to finish her degree in Psychology, Sociology and Afrikaans. "I would advise everyone to not underestimate the help offered by these non profit organisations. There's so much to gain from them. I wish I knew back then, when I dropped out, I ended up being used by employers in my search for employment. I am proud that through the Centre, I got a bursary to change my life and feed my family," said Joseph. Samuel Plaatjie, the district coordinator at the Department of Home Affairs, said individuals are always advised to make appointments on their own, using the free online service.