A group of pensioners in Khayelitsha are boxing their way to better health.  The grannies squatted, boxed and star jumped as an all-women pensioner gym programme kicked off this week.  What began as a former boxing professional’s promise to God, to begin a boxing academy for boys, if he heals him from an injury that ended his promising career in 2004, has transcended into a health haven for the Khayelitsha community. Jongi Kamko, the founder and owner of the gy,m began a programme for female pensioners this week, to help manage their chronic illnesses and ill health. “The vision began in 2004 after my boxing career was cut short. The doctors had suggested that they amputate my leg. My late father was a pastor, and so I was taught very young to pray. I prayed to God to heal me, and if he does. I will begin a boxing and gym academy. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “The vision began as a boxing programme for young boys, to get them off crime and the street. I then realised that young girls needed grooming too, and I opened a wing for them too. “Since then, we have opened an after- school programme for the youth to train and do their homework and very recently we opened a wing for female pensioners who are all above 60. We exercise together and I teach them boxing,” he said. Linah Fupi, a pensioner who is part of the programme, said that at a young age she played netbal, and has not been active since her young days and that is why she joined the gym. “I have a chronic illness and my age requires me to be active. My daughter trains at the gym and she is the one who suggested I join this pensioners group,” she said. Nomakhosazana Sidod,o who also has joined the all- women group, said she lost her job during Covid-19 and became a pensioner after retrenchment, she then became sick and is now taking her life back into hands to fight bad health. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Silveria Sawula, a former dietitian before being a pensioner, also joined the group due to chronic issues. Since she joined she said she feels healthier and the pains of a car accident she was involved in have begun to subside. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Kamko said he is in awe of the manifestation of his promise to God and has no words to describe the joy he feels when he looks back to where he began. “I began my gym in a shack I built just down the street, having a building that has now become a home for the entire community leaves me speechless. My 86-year-old mother is proud and so is my late father,” he said.