A cashier's plea  fell onto the right ears as over a hundred children from Marconi Beam Primary School in Joe Slovo received new school shoes from Palm Footwear Manufacturers earlier today. The company responded to Mandisi Gaqela, a cashier from Phoenix's, plea for help to collect shoes to donate to the underprivileged children at the school. He shared his appeal in the Weekend Argus, explaining his inspiration and the circumstances faced by these children in his neighbouring community and the donors flew from Durban to put smiles on the faces of the little ones. "Our managing director read your article and was inspired by the work that Mandisi is doing, and we stepped up to donate the entire hundred pairs. He had already collected about 30, but he initially wanted to donate a hundred, so we did just that. "It is really good to be giving back towards education because Trustees is not only a school brand, but it invests in the future of young South Africans. Amongst these kids we are putting these shoes on are our next leaders, our next presidents, so I think investment is not about giving something out when you're expecting something in return, but giving towards something bigger. We want to give them a message of hope, dignity and comfortm, so we say Trustees are going to walk with you in this journey," said Rtayu Pattundeen, the operations manager at the company. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. And it was a dream come true for Gaqela, who said: "I started this from nothing. I have always wanted to do it but had doubts as it meant taking from my own income. I did not realise I just needed to take the first step. Here we are today with all the 100 pairs of shoes I wished for, and the kids will now start school with dignity. I am so grateful and hope this isn't the last. Inganathi Makroza, a Grade 7 learner, said: "I am happy to have received these shoes, I did not have new ones, and there's no money at home. It was through grace that they brought us shoes just at the right time. I am now looking forward to Wednesday, and I want to remind other learners to start preparing and getting ready for the school opening." Principal, Lumka Nqabeni-Boya, said she had no words to express her gratitude. She said the school serves children from poor backgrounds whose families usually struggle to make ends meet. She said they are always looking for and are open to opportunities like these. According to Nqabeni-Boya, the school has 1600 learners, with most classes exceeding the maximum enrolment number, which makes it difficult to spread the government subsidised stationery throughout the year. Today was the first day for the teachers to return to the school, but parents and children did not mind pitching in numbers in celebration of their great start of the year, fitting their shoes and reminiscing about their holidays and the next few days ahead.  The school was buzzing, and staff were ready to kick off with their administrative work before the children return for the academic year.