Despite continuous awareness campaigns, traffic officials arrested 36 motorists for drunk driving on Western Cape roads in the past week. Six pedestrians were  among 11 people who were killed in separate crashes, officials said. The acting MEC for Mobility, Dr Ivan Meyer, raised concern over motorists who continued to drive on the roads after consuming alcohol. “While I am pleased with the reduction in arrests, I am still concerned that more than half of the arrests were for driving under the influence of alcohol, which has been a worrying theme this festive season,” said Meyer. He said while the festive season was not yet over, indications were that road deaths in the province were lower than those recorded in 2021. He warned that consuming alcohol, even in small amounts, and then walking, cycling or driving afterwards was dangerous. “Crashes involving drivers and pedestrians under the influence are no accident. Blood alcohol concentration tests on the bodies of people killed in road crashes show that, whether you are a pedestrian, cyclist or driver, your risk of dying in a road crash is higher if you have been drinking.“ Meyer said alcohol consumption was also linked to other high-risk road use behaviour such as speeding and not using seatbelts. Between January 3 and 8, about 300 roadblocks, vehicle checkpoint and speed control operations were set up across the province. Meyer said a total of 12 670 fines were issued for various traffic violations ranging from driver to vehicle fitness. More than 300 speeding fines were issued, 34 vehicles were impounded and 105 were discontinued for not being roadworthy. Earlier the Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC) said thousands of motorists had been arrested on the country's roads since the start of the festive season. "I wish to thank provincial traffic law enforcement and road safety management, municipal traffic law enforcement services, the South African Police Service and emergency services for all that they have done to keep road users safe over the holiday period. We are all responsible for road safety," said Meyer.