Founder of the Small Things Fund, Rhosa Malgas, received a PhD from Stellenbosch University after completing a study on rural communities who make a living from wild harvesting indigenous rooibos and honeybush in the fynbos region. Dr Malgas' study has its roots in her experiences working with a tea co-op in Nieuwoudtville in the Northern Cape. She received her PhD in Conservation Ecology in December. Dr Malgas has been a lecturer in Conservation Ecology at the SU Faculty of AgriSciences since 2009, and the topic of her PhD thesis reflects her belief that “the search for sustainability is, in fact, all about the search for community.” She said rooibos and honeybush wild-harvesting supports many rural livelihoods, and for that reason, it is important for people to start to sustain production in Fynbos landscapes. “Through my research, I explored the plants, and people’s knowledge about them, to investigate how environmental and social sustainability can be achieved. The fact that permits are issued for honeybush wild-harvesting in the Eastern Cape but not in the Western Cape is an example of a disjuncture in the institutional arrangement within a sector that relies on species that straddle both provinces. “The result is a potential loophole: there is no mechanism to trace or monitor wild honeybush biomass entering Eastern Cape processing plants. It also nullifies cross-border law enforcement, limiting the effectiveness of the permitting system in the Eastern Cape. This points to institutional weaknesses in the sector,” said Malgas. She said she hopes her work will inform regulatory frameworks that reflect the ethos of local users. A policy framework more closely aligned with the aspirations of farmers is likely to be more palatable to them. “For instance, one should include local knowledge and the monitoring of local species into management plans and harvesting protocols if you want to ensure sustainable rooibos and honeybush production, ” she added. Malgas is also a founder of The Small Things Fund, a crowdfunding initiative that has since 2015 supported students who need small amounts of money to keep going with their studies. She said they offer first-line support to first-generation university students in aid of their academic success. “To some our contribution might mean being able to buy a lab coat, while to others, it might be in the form of data or airtime, or a ticket to a concert that they need to attend as part of their course. The support we provide is capped at R3500, hence the name of the Fund.”