Cape Town - The festivities are now over and all that’s left is cleaning up the aftermath, tidying up the city and preventing the litter from entering water bodies and polluting the environment. Mayco member for urban waste management Grant Twigg, said this year’s holiday season saw a significant increase in littering, challenging the municipality to spend it’s budget of over R57 million cleaning up the public areas.  He said packaging litter dominated in many areas. “While there are large numbers of Cape Town residents who make the effort to reduce waste and dispose of waste responsibly, there are still people who litter that this is still a serious issue in many recreational areas.  “We have seen a significant increase, but not alarming compared to other years, in the volume of litter produced by beachgoers due to increase in numbers of people.  “The waste is mostly packaging waste, which we normally handle and dispose adequately.  “The Total budget assigned to the festive season cleansing programme was R57.5 million.  “If all residents disposed of waste strictly in the designated places, the City could theoretically budget much less for this service,” Twigg said. The City reported that 2 588 additional cleaning staff have been deployed and are expected to focus on all scenic routes, highways and byways making sure they're swept using mechanical sweepers, and all adjacent fences, pavements, verges, channels, and centre islands are cleaned on a regular basis. Brian Youngblood, the chairperson of Fish Hoek Valley Ratepayers and Residents Association, said the efforts of the City to clean up litter were commendable and largely successful but the productivity of the EPWP teams drew some criticism. He said although it wasn't practical to compare this year's state of littering to the past two years as the former was during severe Covid-19 lockdown and the latter during a release  from lockdown period. However, there have been fewer beach visitors on Christmas and New Year holidays for all three of the last seasons compared to prior Covid-19 years. He noted that the difference with this year's is the two sewage spills onto the beach which can be attributed to a combination of load shedding and the disposal of the wrong waste into the sewage system. "Plastic bags, bottles, bottle caps, straws and sweet wraps in the sea are a major threat to marine life as well as detracting from the enjoyment of beachgoers. There can never be enough education about the deleterious effects of plastic pollution. Our message to the public is, it is your beach so keep it as clean and litter free as the dearest of your possessions.” Meanwhile, Liz Knight, Green Point Ratepayers' Association co-chairperson, said Green Point did not appear to have more litter over the festive season, and said they had a team of five EPWP cleaners working five days a week to clean the parks, gardens and surrounding streets mostly in upper Green Point. "Litter is always a problem but GPRRA encourages residents to be diligent about recycling and also putting out bins close to collection time. Collection of wet litter by the City was very prompt. And the new recycling company recently appointed by the City are slowly improving with their service. "We celebrate the City’s efforts to rather offer this free collection and free bag service to other ‘needy’ areas and their efforts to teach and encourage others how to recycle. The message to Green Point residents is to try to reduce waste as there is no more landfill space and to be cognisant of climate change. We also encourage them to pressure suppliers to reduce excessive packaging," said Knight. In the CBD, Long Street and areas with most eateries were highly affected but teams reportedly timeously maintained the cleanliness. The wrap of the festive season saw the City's Mayor, Geordin Hill-Lewis embarking on a first massive community Cleansing Programme in Parkwood on January 11. "It is good to be back on the ground today for our first community clean-up of the year, in Parkwood. We call on all Capetonians to adopt the same new year’s resolution in 2023 – to pick up litter. No one should ever litter. All of us can take a minute to pick up litter, and encourage others to do the same. Together, Capetonians can be a powerful force for change in 2023 by taking pride in our city and acting in unison to keep it clean,” said Hill-Lewis in a statement. The programme is expected to run until April.