Local TikTok stars have put on stellar performances and capture millions of followers while some even cashed in on their social media fame. We’ve rounded up the to creators who have made a splash and those we think are going to trend this year. Top creators for 2022 Ikhraam Botha (@whatsupwithikie) Botha stole the hearts of many when he introduced a character by the name of “Tandjies” in his skits. Botha currently has 143 700 followers with his content gaining 1.7 million likes. The entertainer, who creates content to raise awareness of the LGBTQI+ community through humour, has an affinity for content creation. “It has been overwhelming in a positive way. This platform has opened up many doors for me and I’m grateful to the supporters who made it happen,” he said. His TikTok fame led him to host the “7de Laan” roadshow, perform at Karin Kortje’s festival and recently “Tandjies” even performed at the Rugby World Cup Sevens. Mekaila Mathys (@mekailamathys) Known for her role as Tahira Kahn in the Netflix series “Blood & Water”, Mathys has spent the past year on TikTok having fun and it has paid off. The Belhar actress boasts 225 700 followers with 3.6 million likes for her content.  “(Last year) was a good year for me … my only goal was to have fun and be more consistent with my posting,” she said. “People are confronted with the real me and not just the Mekaila that they see on their TV screens.” Yasien Fredericks (@yasienyayafrederi) In 2021 we included Fredericks in the list of people to watch for in 2022, and he did not disappoint. Fredericks, who hails from Wynberg was awarded a DStv Content Creator award in September. “I’m a regular guy from Wynberg and getting to win that award was mind-blowing,” he said. Throughout the year, he has shared a series of videos titled “Life with Zareena”, his wife, which amassed 2.5 million likes and 86 900 followers on the app. “I am grateful for this year because I’ve started receiving recognition for my content. That’s amazing because I never expected it.” Kelly Ernstzen (@kelly_kikx) Whether it be hopping on to the latest dance trend or creating her own, where there’s a beat, Ernstzen is sure to follow. A qualified dance instructor, Ernstzen has amassed 1 million followers on TikTok with her dance moves having gained 26 million likes. The Cape Town dancer has appeared on television and has made multiple appearances at prominent events. “TikTok has elevated the very thing we have been pushing for as creators for the last decade. I never thought it would have put me in touch with international dancers,” she said. Top creators to look out for in 2023 Veronique Jephtas (@veroniquebiancajephtas) A comedian at heart, the actor, poet and award-nominated playwright has her followers in stitches. Her most popular videos have been her skits where she performs as a call centre agent in Belinda Louw’s (slang for Black Label) head office. “I do not look at myself as a creator. I post (on TikTok) as I have done on other platforms. People always say that I make their day which is always nice, life is hard enough.” If she looks familiar, it’s because you might know her from having played roles in “Skemerdans”, “Swirl” and “Arendsvlei” to name a few. For 2023, she would like for her content to inspire hope. Anzio September (@anzioseptember) September joined TikTok in March, his videos have gained hundreds of thousands of views. The full-time actor, who has been in the industry for the last six years, uses his skills on his account by acting along existing TikTok audio while adding his own flair to it. “The response I received online warms my heart, but I never thought I would get such a huge following from creating content,” he said. “I love making people laugh and that’s the best part about making content on this app.” Bronwyn Abrahams (@queen_ofjozi) The Johannesburg creator is the queen of the “soft life”. She owns a digital marketing agency and is often seen jetting off to new and exotic destinations where she shares tips on fashion and travel. “I never wanted to join TikTok, but once I put my mind to it this year I was surprised that I could build a community there,” she said. She said her goal was always to create and share relatable and inspirational content for women. “Having this platform to break stigmas about mental health and finances has been a highlight.” In future, she hopes to highlight financial literacy on her account. Kelly Baartman (@kelly.baartman) Her insights and love for natural hair, lifestyle and fashion has turned Baartman into a rising TikToker. “I am immensely proud of my TikTok journey (last) year, the hard work I’ve been putting into it has started to pay off. “I started by just documenting the things I love doing and I guess many found that to be entertaining,” she said. In future, she wants to expand her brand by challenging herself and getting out of her comfort zone. Weekend Argus Keshia Africa