A Cape Town woman is on a mission to empower women to economic freedom by arming them with interview outfits. Danya Goosen, who runs the Get Job Ready initiative, said growing up in Elsies River exposed her to the hardships facing women who come from poor communities and tend to go into low-income jobs to earn a living.  She added that she had also noticed the stress these women faced when having to go through job interview processes without the ‘proper attire’ and how this affected their confidence.  “Many women are scared to leave abusive households because they are financially dependent on their abusive spouses. With this initiative I want to empower women to achieve economic independence by providing them with professional attire at no cost to them,” she said.  Goosen launched the initiative in 2021 where she invited 10 women to go through a full interview process with her assistance.  “Out of the 10 ladies I have assisted five with interview attire and three of those ladies found employment,” she said.  She said her mission was to help as many women as possible achieve their goal of becoming financially independent.  “All the obstacles we face as women from GBV (gender-based violence) to unequal opportunities should be eradicated and that comes with empowerment.” Sashna September said she benefited from the initiative last year when she was on the job market. Having worked as a cashier for three years, the 30-year-old was grateful when she secured a job as a teacher’s assistance.   “I am grateful to Danya for showing up for our communities and helping us to be more. Sometimes one person believing and empowering you makes the world of difference. “As a woman of colour I wanted to grow not just for myself but for my kids to show them that you can do more if you put your mind to it,” she said.  Prospective job seekers looking for assistance need to furnish Goosen with a copy of an upcoming job interview or an acceptance letter to the educator assistance programme. Applicants can reach out to Goosen on her social media pages @lotusstboutique or email her to danyagoosen@gmail.com Weekend Argus