Cape Town – The City of Cape Town has forked out R490 million to fix collapsed water and sanitation infrastructure across the city – a hope for most Capetonians who have over the years experienced pipe bursts, sewage leaks and drain blockages. The work is currently under way, and is expected to run until January 27 in areas including the Burgundy Estate, Strand,  Sir Lowry’s Pass, Sonstraal Heights, Vredekloof Heights and Belami Ridge, Goedemoed, The Crest and Rosedale Estate.  The areas experience planned disruptions between 9pm and 4am.  The project entails infrastructure maintenance work and pressure testing and residents in the affected areas may expect low water pressure or no water coming out of their taps during this testing period.  It is impossible to predict which areas or streets will experience disruptions. Giving a breakdown of the budget, Siseko Mbandezi, the City’s acting mayco member for water and sanitation, said the R275m primary and about R214.9m will go towards the secondary work which would be done internally. “The City conducts ongoing proactive maintenance on its water and sanitation infrastructure, as part of its Water Demand Management Strategy.  “By managing water pressure more effectively, we reduce the risk of pipe bursts, water wastage and unplanned disruptions to our city’s water supply. Infrastructure that is well maintained means that the City can provide essential basic services to its residents, whilst planning for the future and reducing spending on unplanned repairs and or faults that may occur,” said Mbandezi. He added that "Water testing happens regularly as per the City’s water sampling schedule for various water sources across the City.  The drinking water is treated at the water treatment plants to comply with the South African National Standards for drinking water (SANS 241) and is sampled at various points for analyses on the water supply distribution network to ensure compliance.“ A resident, Amy Knoeke confirmed the disruptions schedules were honoured as the Burgundy Estate had already got its turn on January 19. She said the difference in her water was only for an hour when it went mud-rust, but all was back to normal in no time. The infrastructure maintenances comes nearly five months after the Weekend Argus Saturday reported  about complaints over old water and sanitation infrastructures that were said to be older than 30 years in Blue Downs and Table View among other areas that have recently had wet roads and sticky environments due to blockages and pipe bursts. The City advised residents to store water in clean sealed containers for domestic use during this period and to keep taps closed to prevent water loss and or damage when the water supply is restored. The City also warned Capetonians to save water and help the municipality maintain its maximum usage of 850 million litres per day.  The tips are available on their website.