STELLENBOSCH University urinator Theuns du Toit will begin a new academic chapter with criminal charges hanging over his head as his victim’s family doubles down on efforts to have him charged. Eight months ago Du Toit woke up tired, foggy-headed and his breath reeked of the one-and-a-half bottles of brandy he drank the night before.  But fighting off the hangover was not his only worry.  Du Toit, in his drunken state, was caught on video urinating on the belongings of black peer Babalo Ndwayana, an incident that made global headlines.  Youth activists also channelled their fury into a mass protest. But Du Toit, who was expelled from Stellenbosch University shortly after an internal disciplinary hearing found him guilty of the incident that occurred in the Huis Marais men’s residence in May last year, is using this ordeal as grist to the mill.  “It’s a new year, he is going to study again,” said his uncle, Bankies van der Bank.  “I don’t even want to say anything further, it will stoke the fire,” Van der Bank told Weekend Argus on Friday.  Du Toit applied for admission to the Afrikaans university Akademia last year and Weekend Argus has it on good authority that he was accepted. University registrar Liana van Rooy said: “It was previously confirmed that Theuns du Toit applied to study at Akademia for the 2023 academic year. “Due to the Act on Protection of Personal Information, Akademia is not empowered to dish out any personal information about any prospective or current student's application or registration process with anyone other than the individual.”  Ndwayana’s family also has high hopes and big dreams for the year ahead. Chief among them all is seeing Du Toit prosecuted for his alleged crimes. Nomonde Gxilishe, a lawyer from the Unisa Law Clinic who also represented Ndwayana during Stellenbosch University’s internal disciplinary process, said his clients were waiting for the matter to be enrolled in court. In October the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) announced that Du Toit would face charges of crimen injuria and damage to property. This week spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila could not confirm a date for the case. Ndwayana’s father, Mkuseli Kaduka, told Weekend Argus he was determined to see justice done and Du Toit have his day in court.  “The law should take its course, I don’t know when the case will be enrolled,” Kaduka said yesterday. “We just came back from our Christmas holiday in Jeffrey’s Bay as a family. This is part of our healing process.”  Kaduka said Ndwayana was preparing to go back to the university soon.  “He will go back to Stellenbosch, there are no plans of changing institutions, Stellenbosch is the best to serve Babalo’s career aspirations,” Kaduka said.  Neither Du Toit nor his father Rudi could be reached for comment.  Weekend Argus.