Commuting on public transport in Cape Town has become more expensive, following recent fare increases by bus operators, commuters have complained. Golden Arrow Bus Services (GABS) increased its fares by an average of 6.95% in December, while MyCiTi fares also went up a month prior, forcing commuters to pay more for transport to work and school. Cash-strapped commuters who are now faced with rising food and electricity costs, are now forced to pay more on transport. A single cash trip between Cape Town and Atlantis before 8am on a Golden Arrow bus now costs R46, while a Khayelitsha commuter pays up to R38.50. GABS, which is subsidised by the state, said the fare increases were due to the increases in the cost of diesel, coupled with staff wage increases and "unexpectedly high" increases on components. "I’m perturbed by the impact of these new charges on my financial state, especially at a time of rising inflation," said Tony Bathong, a 23-year-old who uses Golden Arrow to commute to town from Strand. "The latest increase is tantamount to exploitation of commuters, who are supposed to benefit from the trickle-down effects of last month's fallen prices of fuel," said Bathong. "Bus fare increases should be scrapped until Golden Arrow can meet a certain standard ... travelling on cramped buses with windows that're most of the time inoperative, isn’t a choice that the public, or at least I, will accept," he said. A cash trip from Strand during peak hours costs R46.50, a R3 increase. An angry Khayelitsha resident, Nomakhaya Xesibe said she had considered switching from a taxi to a bus this year to make a saving. "I spend R1 200 per month on taxis to travel to town. From town I walk to the V&A Waterfront where I work because I can't afford an additional cost of R240 per month. "But GABS is  also expensive, and even if I opt for a clip card, I would still pay close to R900 a month if I factor in the extra cost of taking a local taxi to the bus stop,“ she said. MyCITi also increased its fares in November and withdrew or suspended some of its services, including to Cape Town International Airport, Sea Point and some parts of Table View. Nomaswazi Sokhele, a domestic worker in Sea Point, takes a taxi from Philippi at R23 per trip and now walks to her employer's house after the withdrawal of MyCiTi service. "I cannot afford the additional taxi fare of R28 per day to Sea Point, so I would rather walk there. I don't know how I will survive in winter when it starts raining,“ she said. With the dysfunctional rail system on crucial lines, commuters said they were left to bear the brunt of "corruption and inefficiencies". "Before the trains stopped running between Cape Town and Heideveld I used to spend at least R120 on a monthly ticket around 2020," said a Gugulethu resident, Nomathamsanqa Vani. Now she spends R22 on a taxi on a single trip. The decision by the City to scrap the "much needed transport services" on crucial bus routes was described by GOOD councillor, Morné Joseph as a massive step backwards. "The people of Cape Town should be encouraged to use public transport through the expansion of the network and services. Public transport is a public good and, therefore, carries costs for the City which must be accommodated in the interests of improved and affordable access and mobility," he said. Coordinator for Young Urbanists South Africa and Active Mobility Forum Cape Town, Roland Postma, said that in reducing and closing routes, the City was taking public transportation in the wrong direction. "Currently R10 billion is earmarked for Phase 2A of MyCiTi and new plans are afoot to create a multi-nodal public transport system, it is critical that the City sees public transportation as an equity solution and should shield vulnerable users from the increases in cost of living.  “The recent changes undermines their commitment to create a more caring and liveable Cape Town," he said. Postma added that in the absence of a safe and reliable rail network, the City needed to invest more in public transport across the board. A 2021 National Household Travel Survey (NHTS) by Stats SA showed that trips to work were the second most common purpose for household members to travel. The trips were most predominant in Western Cape (37,4%), Gauteng (31,1%), and KwaZulu-Natal (28,3%). Travel cost (30,8%) surpassed travel time (23,3%) as the biggest factor influencing modal choice of households while flexibility was mentioned by 11.9% of households. Weekend Argus