Cape Town - Thembalethu residents in George are calling for the closure of a popular shisanyama following the murder of a 24-year-old man on Sunday. The police have confirmed that they are investigating a case of murder after the body of an unnamed man was found with stab wounds in the early hours of Sunday morning in Tabata Street at a place called Emcimbini. "Information available indicates, police responded to an attack at a premises. Upon arrival, they found the body of the man on the ground with three stab wounds to the body. Paramedics later declared the victim dead on scene," said Garden Route police spokesperson, Sergeant Christopher Spies. He said police have opened a murder docket and that the circumstances surrounding this incident are under investigation. Chairman of the George Community Forum, Xolisani Booi, said for everyone’s safety, the place must close as this is not the first person to have been killed near the place. "As residents, we are really struggling because that place fills up every weekend, and when it fills up, it becomes too dangerous to even pass through that street. Our cars are being damaged, and traffic is also affected. "We call upon all Thembalethu residents to come together to say ‘enough is enough’," said Booi. A petition is circulating online asking residents to sign in order to have Emcimbini closed down. The petition, which was started by Nkosikhona Maseti, currently has over 700 signatures. "We have lost far too many loved ones, brothers and sisters, due to their gross negligence, disregard for their patrons' safety, and lack of basic respect for human life. Emcimbini's owner refuses to take responsibility for prioritising people's safety at his place. “He puts his own selfish needs for profit above human life. Emcimbini is not a safe space for entertainment to our people, it has proven to be a place of death, rape, and utter chaos," said Maseti. With regards to the murder, anyone with information is asked to contact the investigation officer Warrant Officer Esmerelda Jackson on 079 894 1576 or Crime Stop at 08600 10111.