Cape Town - Determined to rectify her past and lead by an example in the eyes of her daughter, an Ocean View teenage mom left an abusive relationship and return to school to pursue her education.  Sixteen-year-old Akicia Steyn left school a few months after giving birth to her now 2-year-old daughter as the father of her child was reportedly physically and emotionally abusing her.  “I didn’t know better at the time and thought if I listened to him he’d change and care for us as family. Deep down I knew I wanted to become a doctor one day but I believed it when he said that was just a dream as I come from a struggling family.  “The abuse continued even after I left school until one day when he beat and left me with a scar on my face. I knew that wasn’t the life I wanted. I couldn’t bear seeing my face like that and I thought what if one day he beat me and my daughter asks what happened. How would I tell her it’s her dad?" “Yes life is tough, and it’s nice to find someone who makes you feel special but now I know if it costs my happiness then it’s not love and that love doesn’t hurt. I put myself and my daughter first. I’ll study hard to give her a better life. “All I need is enough to get started off and I know things will get better,” she emphasised. She returned to Grade 9 in Ocean View High School and said she’d prepared herself for the anticipated bullying and gossip “as I am older for the grade but I don’t care, people will always talk. At least I am matured now,” she said. Steyn struggled to procure stationery and full school uniform, but thanks to Good Samaritans who responded to an appeal by Joanne Johannes, she got donations from a few Facebook friends. “She came to visit our daughter and I peaked from our conversation that she is going back to school. I started showing interest and she told me about her need for the uniform and stationery. I was touched, yes times are tough but I wouldn’t turn a blind eye to her situation knowing how hard it must have been to admitting to her mistakes and deciding to get education. It’s something not even most grown women do after experiencing such abuse. Many turn to drugs and alcohol, but here she is, taking a huge step to create a new slate and build a future for her child. I am proud of her and will support her in this journey. Thank you to everyone who’s supported Akicia this far,” Johannes said.  Even the Western Cape Education Department was touched by Steyn’s wisdom.  “It is wonderful to hear that she wants to finish her education and we sincerely wish her the very best in achieving this goal. While we are not aware of the personal circumstances of this learner, due to her age, it would be recommended that she is enrolled at an adult education centre," said WCED spokesperson Bronagh Hammond. “As a province, we would like to see as many learners as possible remain in the system and complete their NSC. The NSC certificate allows for further opportunities of study or work opportunities and the completion of one’s studies also allows for the development of other skills that the individual can use either in their personal or professional lives,” she added.