Have you ever wondered why it is important to eat healthy foods? That is because they contain important vitamins to help you grow big and strong.  According to Raising Children, an Australian kid’s organisation, here is the list of essential vitamins and minerals for child growth. Vitamin A is good for eyesight, healthy skin, growth, development and good immune function. You can get it from a liver, meat, milk, eggs and orange fruit and veggies like carrots and sweet potatoes. Vitamins B1, 2 and 3 help release energy from foods so that the nervous system and muscles can work properly. You can get it from fish, meat, wholegrain bread, breakfast cereals, milk, yoghurt, cheese, yeast extracts and eggs. Vitamins B6 and B12 release energy from protein and help with red blood cell production and brain function, and they also promote growth, and you can get them from meat, fish, wholegrain foods, vegetables and nuts.. Vitamin C builds collagen and helps to fight infections and absorb iron from food. It also keeps teeth, bones and gums healthy and you can get it from fruits and vegetables especially citrus fruits, kiwi fruits, capsicums and potatoes. You may lose some vitamin C when you cook food. Vitamin D helps you to absorb calcium to keep bones strong and healthy. Human bodies make most of the vitamin D people need when they get enough direct sunlight on the skin and you can get small amounts of it from oily fish, fish liver oils, egg yolks, mushrooms, butter and margarine. Vitamin E boosts your immune system and helps with the development of healthy skin and eyes and you can get it from sunflower and canola oils, margarine, seeds and nuts. Folic acid helps you absorb protein and form new blood cells and DNA and you also get it from green leafy vegetables, liver, legumes and wholegrain breads and cereals. The organisation also listed a number of minerals kids need to grow properly, healthy and strong, the minerals include: Calcium builds strong bones and teeth, and you can get it from dairy products Iodine is essential for normal growth and tissue development, and it helps controls the way your cells make energy and use oxygen. Iron is important for brain function and red blood cell production, and it also helps carry oxygen around the body. Zinc helps with growth, wound healing and immune system function. Dr Andre Hattingh from the Pediatric Care Africa said that vitamins and minerals are critically important for the growth, health and well being of children, and it is best to take in the vitamins and minerals by the food you eat!  "A balanced diet is especially important for children as they are growing and developing, whilst having to develop their immune systems and fighting of a constant exposure to bacteria, viruses, etc.”