Cape Town – As schools are opening and parents will be packing up lunch boxes for their little ones, the book “What Does Mpumi Eat?” might just be what you need to remind you about healthy eating and what foods are best for what particular kids occasions. The book was written by anthropologist Lebohang Masango with the aim to show children aged three to six their everyday reality and to help to familiarise them with the different kinds of food that we consume daily.  It was written and designed in a unique way, suitable for the reading beginners, and a question and answer format is used to stimulate their minds. “The book presents Mpumi alongside a series of questions to the young reader, inviting them to think about what she is eating and what they like to eat during different times and occasions.  “The pages are presented simply, allowing readers to focus on the question, posed on the left page, and Mpumi and her food on the right. “The book was also inspired by my realisation that we don't have many South African books for beginner readers in South Africa.  “I think it's necessary to ensure that the three to six age group is catered for with age-appropriate reading material that reflects their environment,” Masango explained. The book part of eight titles focusing on Mpumi, and this 15-paged picture book presents her as a small girl fascinating about food, and Masango mostly used colourful healthy eats to make it attractive to minions, thanks to the creative work by the illustrator, Masego Morulane. Dušanka Stojaković from New Africa Books publishers said: “It was agreed that healthy food is frequently missing in South African homes, even though we have some of the best produce in the world.  “Packaged snacks are in demand, as are fizzy drinks, and South Africa has a very high number of oversized people, who frequently suffer from diabetes.” She said the book has attracted interests and support from libraries, reading groups and to also government departments. The book is available in eleven South African languages at R65 a copy at most of local bookstores and online.