AS South Africa buckles under Eskom’s failures, the country’s potential to generate 901GW from offshore wind, much of it from the Western Cape, has been mooted as a possible solution to the ongoing energy security challenges. The data, from the World Bank’s offshore wind roadmap for South Africa was released following the Green Energy Africa Summit late last year. This comes as the country has been plunged back into stage-6 rolling blackouts as the power utility battles with breakdowns of units at multiple power stations. The roadmap shows the estimated technical potential for fixed and floating offshore wind in South Africa. Towns such as Saldanha, Cape Town, Hermanus and Mossel Bay are highlighted as having great potential for such a project. Energy economist Lungile Mashele said if implemented, it could “rapidly” grow the labour market. “It would undoubtedly expand the labour market, but a very niche market,” said Mashele. “You’re looking at additional skills, additional people, especially when you’re going offshore – then it’s exclusively a special skill that you need to exhibit. You’re now looking at people who can work in the ocean,” she said. Mashele added that people should not be blind to the fact that offshore wind was almost double the cost of its expensive cousin, onshore wind. Expert Nick Hedley agreed, saying double the cost of onshore does seem to be the consensus. “That’s excluding the UK,” said Hedley. “It’s imperative to note that it’s still way cheaper than Eskom’s coal power. Even if it is double the cost of onshore wind, it would still be very cheap. Some wind projects in (the independent power producer) bid window 5 were as cheap as 34c/kWH, which is insanely cheap. The average is around 47c/kWH.” Hedley also said South Africa was overlooking this “big opportunity”. “(This) while the UK, Australia, the US and European countries start going big on offshore wind. There’s not much grid capacity left in the Western Cape, so investments in the grid would be needed, but there’s lots of grid capacity in KwaZulu-Natal,” said Hedley. Western Cape Premier Alan Winde said the province would pursue any legitimate proposals in an attempt to do away with crippling power cuts. “The (Western Cape government) will look at all possible options to make the province energy-resilient, and we would fully support the national government pursuing all options to resolve this catastrophe of their own making,” said Winde’s spokesperson, Regan Thaw. Thaw added: “I’d say harnessing any renewable/green energy sources must and will be considered by us.” In the meantime, Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan told Weekend Argus that Eskom would tap into anything that would provide energy security. “Government’s aim is to have energy security into the future,” said Gordhan. “There are a number of factors which are giving us protracted load shedding. All the expertise available will be, and is being, mobilised to help Eskom and the energy Natjoints,” Gordhan added. On Thursday, the National Energy Regulator of SA approved an 18.65% tariff increase for Eskom customers, effective April 1. It also gave the green light for a 12.74% hike for next year. Eskom had pushed for a 32% tariff increase, warning that the hike was necessary to continue its operations. Weekend Argus