Cape Town- Still don't know where to be or what to do on New Year's Eve?Worry no more because there are a number of places that will be hosting New Year's Eve parties on to ring in 2023.  The year may be coming to an end, but for places like the Radisson Red and Amphitheatre at V&A Waterfront, The Taj in Cape Town CBD, it is time to celebrate renewal with fun, music and light to welcome 2023. Locals and visitors can look forward to non-stop entertainment from local performers at the Amphitheatre as well as a visit from the Cape Town Carnival from 7pm until the countdown to midnight. David Green, the CEO of V&A Waterfront, said that it’s been a tough but fulfilling year to get to the point of presenting their visitors a reconnection to their old favourites as well as new and exciting retail, restaurants, and recreational spaces. “The past 12 months offered us an opportunity for renewal, and I hope our visitors will share in our excitement as they take in the atmosphere of our fun, diverse and inclusive neighbourhood,” said Green. The Radisson Red will be hosting a rooftop party on NYE. Pascal and Pearce, and other DJs will be supplying the beats, plus there will be all-night party grub and sweets treats. All guests will receive drinks upon arrival and drink vouchers and bubbly when the bells toll at midnight. Ouibar and kitchen will have a menu packed with live music, and a game lounge and special menu for youngsters. The Taj Cape Town, in the heart of the city, is pulling out all the stops with no less than three wonderfully festive ways to ring in the new year. The show stopper soirée is in The Reserve banquet venue, an opulent historic space complete with chandeliers, marble, columns and high ceilings. A dinner-dance complete with a live band and DJ will sweep you into 2023 in nostalgic style. For something more casual-chic, you can book for the buffet extravaganza at Mint Restaurant and the Lobby Lounge & Bar (with live music). And if you’re after a quieter, more intimate celebration, there’s the fine-dining, Indian-fusion set menu at Bombay Brasserie. Both will get a complimentary Simonsig Kaapse Vonkel welcome drink. At Union Square, at the Waterfront, there will be a light display, including pyrotechnics, to mark the crossover into the new year. It is going to be a sight not to miss. New Year's day is all about picnics, braais and going to the beaches. It is also about gatherings and celebrations of crossing over to the new year. Mayor Geordin Hill-Lewis said that more than 30 years after it first opened its doors, the V&A Waterfront continues to innovate and showcase the best of what Cape Town has to offer. "Happy New Year to every resident and visitor to our beautiful city. May you have a truly unforgettable time here, and we know you'll be back soon" said Hill-Lewis. Weekend Argus