Cape Town - Following prolonged blackouts as Eskom struggles to supply power to South Africans, Cammisa the Movement has called for inclusiveness in further discussions about electricity issues in the country. Cammisa, which is known for advocating for indigenous citizens, called a crisis meeting yesterday to brainstorm amicable interventions needed to have the voices of the public heard at higher-level discussions. According to the group’s leader, Malcolm Taylor, it was concluded at the meeting that all structures nationwide must start taking action and work closely to push for inclusion in all Eskom meetings in order to study the main issue and have a say in the decision-making processes. “This Eskom problem should not be a political ball game, it is a crisis affecting the lives of those on the ground and we cannot sit and wait for those in authority to solve it on their own because they have already failed us. We have put our faith in them for too long and the situation just keeps worsening. We as the people who suffer want to know what is happening and what is being done to find solutions and to bring our ideas forward. Their time to feed us lies about the power issues has expired, let the people have a say. If we are a democratic country as they say, then there shouldn’t be a problem with having an ordinary citizen at the table to discuss what’s concerning them. “We’re planning to do this in an orderly manner, through the structures which we have faith in the leadership as mostly they’re community leaders with high standards and are for peace. The proper channels will be followed and the right platforms will be used to tackle the issues. We can just hope that the government and all involved stakeholders will have a mutual understanding so there won’t be unnecessary conflicts. What we want is service delivery, transparency, fairness, justice and safety in our communities. You cannot have that if you have a young woman walking in the dark to catch a taxi to work, a student studying in darkness or being held as a prisoner, being told what you can do and when to do it at you your own home, which is the situation we’re currently experiencing now with these blackouts,” explained Taylor. Shaun Green from the Gqeberha branch said: “We have come to realise that this Eskom situation is now a money-making scheme, sucking from the poor. We want to be part of the solution. They have been saying there’s no funds to sustain the infrastructure and produce enough supply, but they are quick to push for the move towards green energy. Where is the money to implement such a nationwide change going to come from? Why are they focusing on profiting from the coal by selling it to foreign countries while we need it for our own benefit?” Bulelani Mkhohliswa from Gauteng believes Eskom has management issues. In a statement, Eskom said they appreciated and were fully aware of the difficulties caused to the public and the economy by the continuing power capacity constraints.  “Eskom would like to apologise to the people of South Africa for these difficulties and to assure the public that, together with the government and other stakeholders, we are working with urgency to resolve the generation capacity constraints and to reduce the load shedding as soon as possible. The reality, however, is that resolving the problems impacting the performance of the generation coal fleet will take longer than South Africa wants and needs. Although the stages of load shedding have been high and for extended periods, this does not indicate that the power system is approaching a blackout.” South Africa currently experiences stage 3 load shedding during the day and shifts to stage 4 at night.