Durban — January is always a financially challenging month for most families because of festive season spending and the scramble to buy school essentials for their children. The Dream Big Stay Humble nonprofit organisation aims to help the parents of school-going children. The charity’s KeepUpThePace (#KUTP22) initiative was aimed at providing school shoes for several schools. Founder Khayelihle Nkabinde said the theme was: “Keeping up with the pace of the young generation by uplifting the youth who are our future leaders and pioneers. Walk a mile in my shoes.” Nkabinde said replacing outgrown or worn-out school shoes was a financial burden for many parents. Working with Port Shepstone High School and companies such as Woolworths, the project targeted disadvantaged schools. This year, the project focused on Olwandle High School in KwaZulu-Natal. “Founded in 2018 by me, the organisation aims to provide young people with practical knowledge for the future through the creation of key partnerships with experts and organisations that have the ability to provide much-needed resources to those in need,” said Nkabinde. The #KUTP22 project, which began in 2021, runs from late October to January – before schools open. Nkabinde said the project was not limited to helping schools in KZN, but to provide aid to schools nationwide. Port Shepstone High School public relations officer Karen Da Rosa said the school was proud of Nkabinde’s willingness to give back as he was a former pupil at the school. She praised the pupils who had donated their shoes to those less fortunate than themselves. “The shoe campaign assists so many and people underestimate the importance of a simple thing like decent school shoes,” said Da Rosa. “As the matric class of 2022 ended their incredible journey at PSHS, they gave back to those less fortunate by giving their school shoes another story. These caring heroes donated their shoes to a wonderful cause as they ceremoniously left this part of their story behind them,” she said. Cristelle Barbeau, who was responsible for designing the project’s posters, emphasised how such an initiative could enrich lives and give children the motivation to learn. “We are not all so fortunate to start a new school year with brand-new, shining shoes from a store. Having Dream Big Stay Humble step in and make this possible for those who are unable to experience this makes my heart happy,” said Barbeau. She said that the project saw the need to put a plan in place to make a difference and remind children that education was important. “Even though the journey is affected by so many factors (like school shoes) you have to keep walking it and giving up is not an option,” said Barbeau. Daily News