Pediatric Care Africa, a non-profit organisation for children, will host its fourth Ride for a Child Charity motorbike ride around South Africa. The ride will start on February 11 and end on March 4 and will see riders covering a distance of 7 000km.  According to the organisation, the purpose of the fourth Ride for a Child charity ride is to generate funds for their 1 000 surgeries for 1 000 children campaign #HELPMYOP, and to raise awareness of the plight of children who require surgeries and medical treatment but cannot get help because their parents are poor and for those who have no parents at all. The organisation is hoping to assist 45 children with surgeries and 400 children with visits to private specialist doctors in 2023. Dr André Hattingh, managing director and founder of Pediatric Care Africa, said his inspiration for starting the charity motorbike ride in 2019 was to show children in South Africa that they care about them. “As we struggle to raise funds sustainably, I was forced to use all options open and available to me, and as a long-time motorbike rider it was natural to incorporate motorbikes to draw attention to our cause and the children we assist. One motorbike goes by unnoticed, but 100 motorbikes make everyone look up and ask what is going on and draw attention to our cause,” he said. He said they invite all bike riders on their route to join hands with them to raise funds for children’s surgeries and medical treatment. “Children only ask for a chance and a little bit of love to succeed in life and become productive citizens. No child must be denied First World medical care, ever,” said Hattingh. They will stop in Cape Town for three days and visit the Nazareth House, one of the institutions giving palliative care to children in the city. Lazyja Steyn will be riding with the organisation for the second time this year and she is excited to part of the great initiative. “Being able to brighten up a kid’s day is the highlight of the trip. Have you ever seen a child’s face when a motorcycle stops next to him at a robot? Imagine that little face when he is the one on top of the motorcycle, that absolute pure joy and trust while holding on to you as a stranger,” she said. She said having a kid on top of a motorcycle is priceless as it is the moment you can see stars in their eyes. “That’s the moment when dreams are born and hope created. For that moment he forgets all his worries, unhappiness or sickness, that moment he is free and that is what inspires me. “Having the opportunity to make a little difference in a kid’s life, even if it’s only for a moment, is worth it all, and 7 000km around SA is the least I can do. This year I am blessed for having my son, Lo-mar, 11, with us. He wants to show kids anything is possible and good things do happen,” said Steyn. Pediatric Care Africa has already handed out more than 2.2 million meals and more than 5 000 baby packs containing baby milk, food and nappies for babies and toddlers. More than 5 800 people have received free medical treatment and 1 390 children were taken to private doctors and specialists by the organisation. To assist in any way, visit their website www.pediatriccareafrica.org. Weekend Argus