Cape Town – In an effort to curb crime in Dunoon, the area was given a mobile police unit that will offer services like any police station.  The police truck and a few vans with an army of officers is located daily at the Dunoon Taxi Rank, rendering most services offered at normal stations. While the truck runs as an office, the vans are on guard, doing patrols and transporting suspects to the cells when necessary. “During the beginning of January 2023 a new mobile police station was established at Dunoon taxi rank in Milnerton.  “We have received a positive response from the community.  “Normal policing duties including administrative duties, affidavits and opening of cases will be rendered and we are still monitoring,” explained Captain FC Van Wyk, the provincial police spokesperson. Van Wyk said members posted at this station are expected to work as per the police operational programmes.  “But we cannot divulge more on that. The mobile station will continue until further instruction,” he concluded. This received a warm welcome from the community, with the ward councillor, Meisie Makuwa, saying, “we have see a huge difference ever since they arrived here”.  “Crime has decreased, and behavioural changes are significant among our youths. This is something the community have always needed to restore peace and make it a desirable place to live in. “I cannot single out the troubling elements as we've dealt with a lot different incidents, resulting to an appeal for interventions being made. I implore our people to take advantage of the services offered, they are not just here to make arrests but to service the community in different spheres,” said Meisie. Resident, Vela Mvebana commended the officers at the mobile station.  “I was shocked when I noticed the bakkies standing there with a big truck.  “I thought there's been a scandal and they're here just like during the Covid-19 lockdown when we’re threatened and violated by the law enforcements, but no, they are peaceful and focused.  “They are quick to help and we don't have to spend money just to certify our documents. “I am glad they came to protect us, people are getting robbed at broad daylight and women are targeted. I hope it becomes a permanent thing. Dunoon does need its own station, there's a lot of people and it has grown bigger over the years,” He said. The station came shortly after the Richwood community complained and wanted interventions to curb crime from being spread into their area.  Their outcry followed the arrest suspects allegedly involved in the murder of a Suritha Alting in November 12.  The two suspects aged 16 and 32 were arrested on November 18 and police confirmed them to be hailing from Dunoon.