Cape Town - A Grabouw-based amateur boxing club seeks help in breaking ground to  build multi-purpose facility for youngsters to train and get involved in upliftment programmes. The gym aims to uplift children in the neighbourhood and keep them off the streets and away from drugs, alcohol and gangsterism. The idea is to build a 2 000sqm facility which would accommodate both the boxing, gymnasium clubs and an after school programmes. The municipality reportedly allocated the land to the community a few years ago and those running the  programmes made a successful pitch to build a facility.  The decision was a dream come true for the Under Construction Boxing Club who  have since 2017 been relying on the goodwill of residents who let them use  a veranda or a garage at one of the homes for indoor practises and the streets for most of their activities. Boxer Ayanda Witbooi, 17, a club members said: "This is something we've been hoping for all these years. Most of us do not really have experience in the ring or a proper training centre and get intimidated when we compete at well established places. Secondly, this will boost our confidence and give us some privacy as each boxing club has its own secret tactics to win matches. Ours were usually copied and exposed before we even met the opponents. I am excited. I just hope we'll get the much needed sponsorship," said  The Club has 20  boxers and youngster who regularly join the them for a workout or participate in the after-school programmes. Ayanda said the educational programmes also took place outside. "It's more than just a boxing club, for a couple of years now, our coaches instil the value of education. I grew to become one of the tutors, something I always look forward to. It's motivating to know there are children looking up to you, and this has helped me improve in my school work, too. Having a proper place will allow us to get sponsorships and become a resourced and a safe spot for kids," added Witbooi. Founder of the Club Jonathan Abrahams said: "There is a dire need for sports skills to be developed locally. This facility will enable the promotion of healthy minds, bodies and nutrition, through the specific training and education programmes. “We can no longer continue to turn a blind eye to the dire need for educational and sports facilities in this town, and we have faith that through the support of our people we can achieve this and empower our children. “I believe over the years, sport has proven to have a potential to impact behavioural habits and shape one's personality. We use it as a vehicle to keep the youngsters away from the streets and minimise their exposure to drugs and crime. We want to contribute in the fight against domestic violence and gender-based violence.” Community leader, Twoboy Mantanga, said they could not turn a blind eye to Abrahams' proposal as the committee had also identified a need for a youth development programme and the land they issued had been vacant for a long time waiting for a suitable proposal. "We are based at a formal settlement, holding a full ownership of the land and we are pleased that it has been given to a meaningful purpose. We as the community will monitor the progress and ensure whatever happens aligns with the proposal. “We are also in support of his appeal for support as we are in a very challenged and impoverished community that cannot afford to fund this dream. Our hope is that he (Abrahams) gets a buy-in of our local government and local businesses to achieve this," he said. Abrahams said they hoped to begin construction in June and have it completed in 24 months at a cost of over R100 000, excluding maintenance works and the running costs. For more information Jonathan Abrahams may be contacted on 071 371 5086.