As a Cape Town woman fights for her life in hospital after three dogs including a pit bull attacked her, the department of agriculture is set to meet with an organisation pushing for a ban on the breed. The woman is in a stable condition after a pit and two Rottweiler cross-breeds scalped her. The incident took place on Thursday afternoon in Penhill. The dog’s owner, who cannot be identified until he is charged, told Weekend Argus that his dogs had been removed by law enforcement yesterday. He said he was traumatised.“The dogs were behind the gate and the woman had been passing. The dogs pushed the gates open and the woman jumped to me for protection and this was when my dogs were in protective mode. “It all happened so fast and it was a sad accident and my dogs are like my family, I live alone with them, they thought something was happening to me. Eyewitness and neighbour Julia Maranyane who called the authorities said residents were horrified by the attack. Maranyane claimed she and her eight-year-old grandson had escaped unharmed after they were attacked by the same dogs last year. “We heard calls for help, which were placed on our community WhatsApp group. “When we rushed outside, the woman was already being assisted by residents. It was a terrible sight. I could not sleep on Thursday night. I could see her skull,” she said. Maranyane said she didn’t know the woman and that she was not from the area. “We are calling for the dogs to be removed because the owner does not make sure that the gates are locked. However, the owner did attempt to protect the woman from the dogs and tried to cover her,” she said. Armed security Titanium Securitas Medical Response also released a statement, saying the woman had sustained multiple injuries and that the skin had been ripped off her head. Last month, the Sizwe Kupelo Foundation handed over a petition with 138 358 signatures to ban pit bulls, to the government. The petition came about after a 10-year-old boy in Gelvandale, Gqebera was mauled to death by pit bulls late last year. Since then, the country has seen more such attacks. Kupelo, founder of the foundation and author of the petition, said they were hopeful of the outcome of the meeting to be held on the matter. “We had a brief telephone conversation with the chief of staff who indicated that the department is already conducting research on the matter and will arrange a meeting with the foundation,” he said. The meeting is expected to be held later this month. Kupelo said they were also informed of the latest attack. Department of Agriculture, Land Reform and Rural Development spokesperson, Reggie Ngcobo said they had the petition and that a way forward was being discussed. “Any meeting with them will be after we have concluded our consultation with all involved stakeholders on this matter,” he said. Minister Thoko Didiza has the authority to declare new regulations regarding the Animal Protection Act. Animal experts oppose a ban, arguing that there are no “bad“ breeds, just bad owners, and that it would be impossible to implement since so many dogs are cross-bred. The petition has also reached the desk of President Cyril Ramaphosa and the Cabinet for discussion and the National Assembly. Allan Perrins of the Animal Welfare Society of South Africa said they were aware of the latest incident and said owners were ultimately responsible for their animals, especially pit bulls. “If this is the third incident then the owner definitely needs to be hauled over the coals in terms of the Animal Matters Amendment Act and made to suffer punitive damages for his alleged indifference and alleged negligence. “The Law is clear when it comes to the obligations of a dog owner. The dogs must be kept under their control at all times. Failure to do so is an offence in terms of the Animals Protection Act and by-laws,” he said. Perrins wished the woman a speedy recovery and suggested she pursue the owner for punitive damages. “We note that the dog has already been labelled a pit bull, but given the number of cases of mistaken identity of breeds involved in recent attacks, we would want to see proof before summarily accepting its veracity,” he said. Perrins said they also called for a ban on the sale of the breed following a Facebook page, Cape Town Pit Bulls, advertising the dogs. “In the meantime, pit bulls are still being bred and commercially exploited on a wholesale basis and we implore the authorities to invoke the law, and social media moderators to ban the sale of live animals (especially pit bulls) on their platforms,” he said. Law Enforcement spokesperson Inspector Wayne Dyason said they removed the dogs, and the owner would face charges. “The officers on scene confirmed that only three dogs were on the property. One dog was confiscated Thursday and the other two were removed yesterday. The dogs were taken to the SPCA. “The owner of the dogs will be charged in terms of the Animal Keeping By-Law. The City cannot speculate on the outcome of the case. The victim can also open a case at the South African Police Service(SAPS).”  Weekend Argus