Cape Town - Parents are advised to consider introducing children to professional music lessons from an early age to help them with their co-ordination and vocabulary skills. This is according to Lisa Shaw, the founder of Hout Bay-based Music 4 Mini’s, who offers music lessons to children aged three months and older. The lessons involve singing, rhyming, movement and dancing, as well as the playing of basic percussive music instruments, and there are weekly themes addressing various relevant topics. "Music assists with children’s concentration, counting and memory skills. Through repetition, babies and children can recognise, remember and later recite familiar songs even if they can’t understand the words, so music assists them with memory. As children experience music and rhythm, they learn about beats and different patterns and counting, which will help them later in life with subjects such as maths. Songs also help with literacy by teaching children new sounds and the meanings of words. Babies’ and children’s co-ordination and gross motor skills develop through movement and dancing, while their playing instruments helps with developing their fine motor skills." Shaw added that music also helped with socialising skills, as it’s mostly made in groups. Her 45-minute-long programme also allows the children and their parents or caregivers 15 minutes to mingle at the venue. Nicky Maree has taken three of her kids to the lessons and said: “They are impressive. I don’t regret taking my first-born there when he was still a baby. Then I decided to also take the little ones, and they love it. It’s their happy place, and they learn new skills and grow to be confident individuals.  “I would encourage parents to observe their children from a young age and nurture their passions. Music is universal, so I believe the programme is something all children will enjoy. The classes are not just for children who want to become musicians in the end, but offer other life benefits as well." Music 4 Mini’s has branches in Cape Town and Johannesburg currently catering for 500 learners aged 3 months to five years.