Dancers , some of whom have disabilities are set to wow crowds today when the show off their dance moves, singing and acting.  IntellAbilities Arts Movement in Kuyasa will host its first showcase.  The event will display an integration between able-bodied and disabled youngsters with an expected audience of more than 150 guests. The programme will comprise music, dancing, marimba and acting, followed by a prize-giving ceremony for the performers that will include a stationery pack,  as schools open next week. IntellAbilities founder Musawenkosi Mfikili is from Kuyasa. He works with children with intellectual and physical disabilities, teaches them drama, dance and singing. Mfikili’s vision came to life after he graduated and realised that there was a gap for marginalised children with disabilities in the arts sector.  Exclusion of children and teens with disabilities was the core reason behind him beginning this movement. “Performing arts is a gift one was born with but merely needs to be moulded and enhanced,” he said. Mfikili has also created a space where marginalised youngsters can enhance their voice expose social ills. “Youth living with disabilities are constantly victims of crime, unemployment and rape. We aim to teach those in the programme to use their voices to express themselves and correct social evils.” UCT-trained theatre-maker Thandolethu Mzambe is one of the facilitators who is involved in the project. “The movement seeks to give a voice to young people living with disabilities. We don’t give them a script to enact, but rather allow them to express themselves and tell their own stories,” Mzambe said. The movement has young people from the ages of 12 to 28. Their biggest challenge has been funding. Mfikili was concerned that thie movement could only continue with a steady funding model. Mihlali Nakani, 15, from Philippi, is part of the movement. He he looks forward to the programme each week.  “We work well together, no one judges the other and I am excited that this movement is launching me to my dream to be a dancer,” he said. The showcase takes place today at Kuyasa at 2pm. Activist and Artscape CEO Marlene Le Roux is among the guests expected to attend.