Cape Town - The beleaguered Kannaland municipality has prematurely terminated the contract of its controversial acting municipal manager and replaced him with another official facing fraud charges.  Keith Jordaan’s contract was terminated following a council meeting on Thursday afternoon where Hendrik Barnard was appointed to the position in an acting capacity.  Jordaan’s initial appointment raised eyebrows after he was fired by the George municipality in 2019 for maladministration and the investment of R350 million. Jordaan’s term was supposed to end on January 20, Weekend Argus understands. His successor, Barnard, is just as controversial.  Barnard and three other municipal officials are accused of allegedly defrauding the municipality of more than R338 million, and face two counts of fraud and another two counts of the  Contravention of the Municipal Finance Management Act. Western Cape MEC for Local Government Anton Bredell told Weekend Argus that he was yet to be informed about the latest appointment.  “They can fire and hire who they want – it’s a municipality,” said Bredell.  Donson confirmed that Jordaan and the municipality had “parted ways”. “I just walked out of the council meeting and you’re already asking me questions about Mr Jordaan… we’ve parted ways – it’s all I can say,” said Donson.  On Thursday, Jordaan said he left Kannaland a “better place” than it was when he was appointed on October 20.  “Stabilisation, after the inevitable harm of significant political shenanigans since November 1, 2021, was my priority. And stability (was) achieved,” he said.  “Compliance is core to municipal management, and compliant is where I leave Kannaland. Good governance is easy to achieve. It happens in a moment. “Fact is, I'm fed up to my eyebrows with execs (and folks of every other rank) who talk about how long it takes to achieve change. Pure unadulterated rubbish. It takes for ever to maintain change… it takes but a flash to achieve change.” Barnard said he was aware of the challenges and the huge responsibility council had placed on him when he was appointed to the position.  “The fact that council put their trust in me (means) we should handle it day by day and make (sure) that we (do) the best we can,” said Barnard. Weekend Argus.