Cape Town - Growing up with nothing, this year, Mandisi Gaqela from Phoenix in Milnerton has decided to dig into his pocket to buy shoes for the underprivileged children in Joe Slovo township. He has managed to buy 20  pairs from his salary as a cashier at one of the leading retail stores and hopes to get more by January 16 at Marconi Beam and to be able to host a fun day, where he will hand over the shoes and motivate the children. "For me, it is painful to drive through Joe Slovo and Phoenix and see kids smoking drugs and so on. Boys as young as nine-years-old turn to taxi door operators. Some of it's because there are no parents at home, some lack guidance and while others are simple runaways. We are all parents, as these children are the next generation after us," Gaqela said. "I know what it feels like to not look like other children, as many children are normally excited about the school opening. You would be worrying about being the only one wearing an old, torn uniform and broken shoes.I remember when I was at high school, I used to share a trouser with my neighbour, who saw me suffering and offered to share his uniform with me. I had lost my parents at a very young age. As a result, I could not further my studies after failing my matric. "Looking at my life back then, it was merely the positive words and encouragement I received from those who were around me that kept me going and inspired me to work hard to be where I am at in life. That's why I don't just want to give them the shoes but to also talk to them about life and the importance of education," he said. Gaqela said he wanted to donate 50 pairs of shoes but with him being a father to a five-year-old daughter and as well as as expecting another child, he said his plan fell short and he's now appealing for help from the public. Interested bodies may either buy a pair of shoes or sponsor snacks and entertainment for the day. His friend, Thulani Douse, offered a helping hand, saying he got touched when Gaqela approached him for help. “He asked me to assist with asking around for donations, but we had no luck at all. I felt like it's my duty to assist wherever I can. It's very heartbreaking seeing kids walking to school in torn shoes. I know the feeling as I have been there and know how discouraging it is. I offered to help him with snacks and with whatever I can. Honestly, it's beautiful,” said Douse. Gaqela moved to Cape Town from the rural outskirts of Lusikisiki in the Eastern Cape and started a new life, and eventually married and bought a car from his salary. "I have always had dreams, and even though it was not easy, I made sure to achieve each of them. It's possible to change your story, but as the community, we can try to make things easy for others. For donations, Mandisi Gaqela can be reached at 068 035 3640.