Durban - The KwaZulu-Natal legislature has condemned the disruption of teaching and learning as schools in the province reopened to sporadic community protests.  The chairperson of the portfolio committee in the legislature, Sifiso Sonjica, said it was disappointing that all schools in the Nkandla area in the north of the the province were disrupted during the first week.  Communities were up in arms, demanding tar roads from the provincial government. They blockaded roads with burning tyres and vehicles were torched.  Sonjica said: “It is unfortunate that communities would rather have their children out of school in protest over something that absolutely has nothing to do with teaching and learning. Learners in these communities are the ones to suffer the most and are left behind in the syllabus, while their counterparts in other schools push ahead with their lessons.” Sonjica said the committee had expressed shock at the conduct of parents “who should be supporting and promoting their children’s education” but instead chose to disrupt schooling. He appealed to all communities and government departments to strengthen intergovernmental relations and programmes such as War Rooms to tackle issues of service delivery in communities. “Community protests can be detected and prevented well in time if we make use of service delivery structures and ensure that there is effective participation of all role players in these structures.  “Having said that, we condemn all forms of disruption and vandalism of school infrastructure, and call upon law enforcement agencies to apprehend anyone who would act outside the law in expressing their dissatisfaction,” said Sonjinca. He congratulated the matric class of 2022 in the province, lauding them for their 83% pass rate. Sonjinca encouraged learners, who will now become students, to continue and further their studies as the country needed them to build the country. “We also want to encourage those who did not make it to not despair and pursue other alternative careers to better themselves,” said Sonjinca. SUNDAY TRIBUNE