The life stories of eight local celebrities are highlighted in kykNET’s latest documentary series, “Net Mens” (Only Human), which started airing on Sunday. One of the local celebrities who lets viewers into her life is Kim Cloete, a South African actress best known for her roles in the television series “Binnelanders”, “Isidingo”, and ”Wild at Heart“. Cloete talks about the fateful night that changed her life.  Her fiancé at the time, the 7de Laan actor Randall de Jager, was shot dead in front of her. Now years later Cloete has found love again and is engaged to be married. She said she is finally in a good place again. Cloete also shares details about how she was molested as a child from the age of four and how she had a breakdown years later.  Cloete left home, dug deep within herself and found healing and now she pours her into everything she does for her community.  It is a heart-wrenching episode that’s to be not to be missed. Cloete said, “People are always going to have their opinion about your life, but the people who really matter know what the truth is and that’s what I learned. And at the end of the day, they are the only ones that matter. I found my healing through food, ploughing back into communities and my strong support system.” Actor Reynardt Hugo who directed and produced the series, said: “These eight wonderful stories that are told are each is unique and I am so privileged that these people trusted me to tell their stories.  “In a world where instant success and instant gratification are exalted, I realised that real life is about more than that”. Hugo explains that life is full of fallible human beings, meaningful relationships and listening to each other. In the production, he takes his first steps as a versatile artist who goes behind the scenes. The eight artists who tell their stories in the Net Mens-series include Kurt Darren, Kim Cloete, Dirk van der Westhuizen, Elandré, Cindy Swanepoel, Refentse, Hykie Berg and Early B. The episode featuring Cloete can be seen on January 29 at 8pm on kykNET (DStv channel 144). Weekend Argus