Despite it being two weeks after Valentine’s Day, Cape Town singer and songwriter Fagrie Isaacs is putting on a musical production that celebrates all things love – even in March.  Dubbed “The Ultimate Love Song Collection”, the show is set to take place at the Castle of Good Hope on March 4 with a line-up set on creating a soulful experience that appeals to an audience of all ages.  Isaacs will be sharing the stage with other popular musical acts including saxophonist Don Vino Prins, Andrea Fortuin, Nazneen Leeman and Karin Kortjie, under the musical direction of Charlton Daniels. “I have put together a magnificent cast to take the audience on a musical journey of love songs that can only be described as ‘The Ultimate Love Song Collection,” said Isaacs.  Isaacs, who took fans of Luther Vandross on a walk down memory late with a tribute show titled “Here and Now”, is looking to wow fans with a set filled with a broader selection of love songs.  “It is no secret that Luther Vandross is my favourite artist of all time, and I could not think of doing a show expressing myself through love songs and not include songs from the legend himself as I believe that good songs all have stories and no one told them better than him. “(This time) I will also be doing songs from some of my other favourite artists,” he said. Leeman, a former “Idols” contestant, said she was excited at the chance to perform alongside Isaacs and the other artists who have made a name for themselves in the industry.  “I’m looking forward to not only bring a bit of Naz Leeman but am bursting at the seams knowing I’ll be performing duets with the rest of the amazing cast,” she said. “I love being on stage; however, it’s a whole lot sweeter when the industry allows us to work with Fagrie Isaacs and his awesome team.” Kortjie said: “Singing golden oldies is my thing, so I'm looking forward to my repertoire and I’m very excited about the duets. Definitely something to look forward to as it is always a pleasure and honour sharing the stage with my fellow colleagues.” Tickets for the show range from R200 to R300 and can be booked via WhatsApp to the booking line on 076 866 9767 and following a few simple instructions.  Booking enquiries can also be made via email: info@simplified-me.com Weekend Argus