A Matzikama municipal manager faces suspension following allegations that he offered people jobs in exchange for opening criminal complaints against a senior official in the municipality.  The letter, dated January 30, cites two allegations against Ruben Saul, who is the manager of local economic development. “The suspension is a precautionary measure and does not in any way constitute a sanction,” read the letter sent to Saul by the municipality’s municipal manager Gerald Seas.  “My decision is informed by the seriousness of the alleged transgressions.” The alleged transgressions include Saul, who is a member of the ANC, offering a member of the public a job at the municipality in exchange for opening a criminal case against a senior official in the municipality.  Weekend Argus reliably learnt that the case Saul allegedly wanted someone to open related to sexual allegations against the municipal manager. In December, Seas was placed on special leave pending an investigation over allegations that he had a sexual relationship with a woman who he later promised a job.  At the time, police spokesperson Joseph Swartbooi confirmed a case of rape was registered at Vredendal police station, but added that the complainant later indicated she wanted the case withdrawn. Seas also denied the allegations, stating that he had no relationship with the woman and he never promised her a job. Another charge the municipality levelled against Saul related to him owning businesses without the municipality’s consent.  “Your CIPC (Companies and Intellectual Property Commission) records revealed that you hold ownership, directorship, and membership of various business entities,” the municipality alleged.  “You did not obtain the consent of council to be engaged in any business, trade or profession other than the work of the municipality.” Saul, who earns close to R50 000 monthly, told Weekend Argus that the allegations against him were “simply untrue”.  He said he had been given 14 days to furnish the municipality with reasons why he should not be suspended.  “The allegations constitute a personal attack on me as a religious leader and a respected member of the community ... should the suspension come to fruition I will appeal ... It’s all just politics at play.” Weekend Argus.