Cape Town - January, the month that often sees many digging in their pockets is proving to follow the norm this year.  Though some Cape Town locals are reluctant to lend, many have sought financial relief from credit providers. The Credit Ombud’s spokesperson Kabelo Teme urged South Africans to only borrow from credit institutions only if a dire need arises and if they can afford to.  “Consumers who are considering applying for credit during this time of the year, must first, realistically take stock of their income and expenses to evaluate affordability. Should there be any additional debt commitments, consumers should include this when calculating their current monthly obligations. “Doing this, would justify whether consumers would be able to commit to the new credit applied for and pay the monthly instalments. Consumers should ideally borrow only when they absolutely cannot make any other arrangement. Credit should not be a want but rather a need,” she said. Teme also stressed the importance of requesting your credit report before taking credit, to assist one in fair bargaining when negotiating credit with credit providers. “The Credit Ombud cannot stress enough, the importance of checking their credit reports. This is done by contacting the major credit bureaus to request your credit report before applications for credit are made. “Knowing the credit scores beforehand, gives consumers bargaining power when negotiating the terms of a credit agreement, for example when it comes to interest rate charges,” she said. Cape Town based chartered accountant, Sihle Matanga has predicted that this January will continue the trend of previous years, where consumers borrow money in high numbers to beat the January financial woes. Local mother of two, Valarie Joseph said she puts money aside every month during the year to beat January financial lack but always finds herself borrowing money from the bank. “I keep telling myself that I won’t be borrowing money but I keep going back to do it. I am trying very hard to be financially disciplined,” she said. Hlumelo Jamela said he has had to borrow money from close friends and acquired debt from a credit provider this January due to high cost of living. “It isn’t that you plan to acquire debt. You just find yourself in situations because of very high food prices, petrol prices and the general high cost of living of Cape Town,” He said. Asanda Njokweni said that she is feeling the financial pressure but refuses to borrow money this January. Bongani Gwexe, the supervisor for statistics and research at the National Credit Regulator said the number of applications received from last quarter has increased by 14.21% and rejected applications increased by 18.96%.