For Ansar Salie, becoming one of the province’s leading crime fighters has been a deeply personal mission. A series of traumatic events inspired a sense of duty towards his community, and he has tackled that task with zeal for more than a decade. Last Saturday, his efforts were rewarded when his community police forum (CPF) in Wynberg was named the winner in its category at the provincial police Excellence Awards. Salie, the forum chairperson, was aware of the statistics in his area but did not realise how incredible their success rate was until he heard a speaker announce that the Wynberg crime rate had fallen 96% in 2022. “On Saturday evening, when I was standing there, and then they read out the reasons why the CPF was nominated, I was in awe, myself,” Salie told Weekend Argus. The Lansdowne and Bishop Lavis community forums were runners-up. Prizes were awarded in 22 categories, including detective of the year and catch of the year. Since the prize-giving ceremony, Salie has fielded calls from all over the country, including KwaZulu- Natal and Free State. His counterparts in those regions all want to know: How did you do it? He attributes their success to collaboration between the different players from provincial to local government, regular crime awareness campaigns and restoring faith in the police by making them more accessible to the public. The communication skills he gained as an auditor working for various government clients also come in handy. He recalls an incident in 2010 when he witnessed former home affairs director-general Mkuseli Apleni reprimanding a colleague for embarrassing a junior team member. That left an impression, and he has tried to apply it in all his relationships, including his dealings with the community. “The way I speak to the commissioner or the brigadier at the police station is the same way I address someone out in the street. That homeless person, I treat them with the same amount of dignity because that’s a human being and I’ve instilled that in my neighbourhood watches as well,” Salie said. For that reason, he is on a nickname basis with just about every homeless person in Wynberg. They call him Captain. He knows them by names like Skapie, Boere, Whitey, Aap. Salie is clearly a peacemaker, but that does not mean he shies away from confrontation.  That has sometimes been necessary for a mandate that includes Kenilworth, Alphen and Lower Constantia, which often results in a standoff between residents with different priorities – usually based on income.  “One person will see somebody scratching in a bin, just walking down their road, and they don’t know the person, they will see it as a big problem. And the other side, they will only see a big problem if somebody gets mugged,” he explained. Ward councillor Carmen Siebritz lauded the collaboration from the various stakeholders.   “Wynberg would not have seen the drastic drop in crime if there was no team effort,” she said. Shamila Nicholas, the chairperson of the district’s community police forum cluster, said the dramatic drop in crime in 2021/2022 could be linked to the restrictions imposed by the Covid-19 lockdown. But that also forced volunteers to be creative. For example, they formed a “community in blue” initiative in an attempt to make up for the loss of officers who died or were ill as a result of Covid-19. The community in blue volunteers helped police with operations such as roadblocks. “I could write a book on that period because that was the most challenging period for Wynberg,” Nicholas said. Salie said the battle was far from over. Parts of Wynberg remain a challenge, particularly near the public transport intersection, where hundreds of people were settled by City officials in 2020 after the closure of a temporary shelter in Strandfontein. But he remains motivated, driven by a civic-mindedness that dates back to his childhood, and was reinforced by tragic events later in life. Growing up in Mitchells Plain, between the ages of five and ten, he witnessed the “social evils” of gangs and domestic violence. And as an adult, two family tragedies in one year shaped his outlook. Twenty-seven years ago, his brother-in-law was murdered while his sister was eight months pregnant. In the same year, his brother went missing. To this day, he is unsure what was behind his disappearance. But the final straw came in 2009, when he and his wife, newly-wed and new parents, were victims of a burglary at their Wynberg East home. “They came into the apartment while we were sleeping, ransacked the entire place. My little one was sleeping in a cot next to us. If he had to wake up, they could have done anything to him just to keep him quiet,” he said. That seems to be Salie’s key impulse: preventing the worst from happening, as it did to him. Weekend Argus