Cape Town – Although pained by the lack of consideration and resistance by Makro management to grant the requested percentage of salary increases, staff said it was difficult to get involved in the protests as they lose daily income.  This was revealed as the SA Commercial, Catering, and Allied Workers Union (Saccawu) reportedly issued a warning of a 10-day-long protest to the company following months of unfruitful engagements on Wednesday. The protest is expected to start tomorrow, January 27 at all the retailer’s branches nationwide. “The union is also busy galvanising other stores within the Massmart Group and retail sector to join in the strike, through a secondary or sympathy strike. Saccawu is also calling on all customers and members of various communities to boycott Makro and suspend any purchases at this store, until there is an agreement reached between the parties,” the union’s spokesperson Sithembele Tshwete said in a statement. Among their grievances is an across the board increase of R900 or 12%, a minimum wage R8 000, a commission improvement from 10% to 20% margin for sales people. An increase in category three working hours from 160 to 195 per month, a 13th cheque to be made separate from the December salary, a uniform allowance of R100 and a moratorium on retrenchments for the duration of the agreement. A staff member said they get a R75 allowance for their uniform and a salary of about R6 000 monthly for a newly employed permanent position depending on departments. “This has been going on for over a year. We did not get our increases last year, and yet it is difficult to join the strike because that means a day without income. Imagine not being paid for more than three days on top of the peanuts we’re are already getting,” the employee said. Meanwhile, Tshwete said, the core of the unresolved dispute is the attitude of the company towards undermining collective bargaining. The company has placed conditions that are unacceptable in their latest offer, that the union has to abandon the bargaining unit.  “This effectively means that workers at this establishment are to be left unrepresented by any union. This has left the union with no choice but to defend collective bargaining at this institution. This dispute is no longer about wages and working conditions, but a fight for workers at this company to prevent the erosion of the hard won rights they have acquired through collective bargaining over the years,” he said. Makro hasn’t responded to the inquiry at the time of publication.