A blind Worcester barista turned trainer, has made it his mission to afford visually impaired and fully sighted people a chance to brew their own destinies. Glaucoma stole his sight many years ago, but Joseph Matheatau said he did not allow his new reality to dim his light. The ambitious 45-year-old, who’s originally from Welkom in the Free State, has a new lease on life that is as refreshing and strong as a morning cuppa. He is determined to ensure that others  are afforded opportunities. Matheatau who refers to himself as an “OG Village boy”  draws his strength from his upbringing. “Growing up in the village was fun. We would brew tea on the outside fire for our parents. My love for coffee was born at a young age, it’s all destiny. Part of God’s plan,” he said. At the age of three, Joseph couldn't see with his right eye and the vision in his left eye deteriorated as well. "I learned to use my other senses,” he said. By the time Joseph eventually got to see a specialist years later, the damage was beyond repair. He was diagnosed with glaucoma and was told he would never get his sight back. He was shattered but he wanted to make something of his life.  In 2014, Joseph moved to Worcester to further his studies at the Innovation for Blind Career Development now known as The Hein Wagner Academy. "I completed a Marketing Management course and that same year they were looking for a blind person to be trained as a barista and identified me mainly because of my determination, drive, and the smile that's always on my face," he quipped. And as the saying goes, the rest was history. At Truth Coffee Roasters, Joseph started training to become first blind barista in South Africa. After many challenges, blisters and burnt fingers Joseph is now a master of the craft and can make any drink on the menu. He has also qualified as a barista training facilitator and has trained two  baristas already. One of Joseph’s apprentices is 19-year-old Kiara van Wesemael from Fish Hoek. The teenager began working as a waitress in 2021 and was intrigued by the art of making a good coffee. “The other staff at the restaurant encouraged me to start experimenting and allowed me to go behind the bar and make the easiest coffees that customers requested. “At that point my mom started working with Joseph and when I expressed my keen interest in making coffee she suggested I join one of his classes,” she said. The teen laughingly said she was nervous at first because she could not comprehend how a blind barista could offer courses. Her nervousness quickly made way for admiration when she saw Matheatau in action. “He might not be able to see but uses all of his other senses. It is an interesting and absolutely different experience, one I wouldn’t trade for anything,” she added.  Matheatau feels, smells and hears the grinding of the coffee, feels the texture of the beans and the frothing of the milk – a whole different way of learning about being a barista but a much more engaging experience, explained Kiara. She added: “The training course with Joseph is ten times more engaging than with a fully sighted facilitator. He has a lot to teach and has learned in a completely different way to us. Overall Joseph is a lovely and kind-hearted individual who has so much to give. He is truly inspiring and reminds us all that we should never let anything get us down.” Matheatau has started his own company JBB Coffee Company and can be booked for events, courses as well as motivational speaking. He plans on opening his own coffee shop one day. "Everything I do, I do it wholeheartedly. If you can't put your all into something do not do it. I hope I inspire other people with disabilities or from disadvantaged communities to be and do more. You are capable. You are enough," he added.  Weekend Argus