Cape Town – Azapo says hands off the alleged arsonist, Zandile Mafe, as he marks 365 days behind bars. Azapo strongly believes that there is no valid reason to keep Mafe behind bars as he has not been found guilty of any crime. “He (Mafe) is still awaiting trial while being incarcerated. There is no good reason why he has not been released on bail like any other citizen who enjoys full constitutional rights. “Since day one of his arrest and subsequent court appearances, Azapo through the #HandsOffZandileMafe Campaign showed solidarity and support for Mr Mafe by picketing outside both the Cape Town Magistrate’s Court and the Cape Town High Court calling for his rights to be protected as a vulnerable person. Azapo also ensured Mr Mafe is in the public eye and receives a fair trial.” Azapo has emphasised that it will continue to support Mafe and show a united front at his court appearance this month. “Azapo has maintained that Mr Mafe is a scapegoat in this matter, if truly there was ample evidence to prove him guilty the trial would have been completed in the first six months of his arrest.The charge of terrorism against Mr Mafe shows how low the State has gone in abusing him.” Azapo alleges that the real culprits are still roaming around and are being protected. They believe that the real masterminds that are behind the burning of the national key point are yet to be unmasked. “Strangely, the burnt buildings of Parliament remain in ruins. This begs the question, why is it taking this long to restore a national key point? The seat of the legislature of a sovereign state? Despite protests to the contrary, the signs are there that 28 years of ANC misrule yielded a failed state.” Azapo has since called for a proper criminal investigation of the cause of the fire at Parliament buildings for the possible sabotage of the country. “This call has become necessary because the security agents have proved to be incapable of providing security for the State, especially national key points such as Parliament and Waterkloof Air Force Base as timely examples. “Azapo hopes a speedy investigation to exonerate Mr Mafe should have been completed by this time. It is disheartening to note that after a year there is still no complete investigation report that proves the cause of the fire and who exactly the culprit is.”