A woman’s hair is her crowning glory it is said.  The hair industry is booming in South Africa, be it wigs, hair extensions or synthetic fibre used for braiding.  Hollard insurance’s marine senior business development manager, Marika van Rhyn, said last year hair extensions were among the most “popular” insured items because it was targeted by thieves and hairjackers.  Van Rhyn, said there was a “big demand” for hair extensions, wigs, braids, and weaves on the illicit trade market given how the value of imports of hair extensions had increased by 64% over a four year period in an industry valued at billions of dollars worldwide.  SarHap Hair Line is one of the businesses looking to capitalise on this growing demand with a venture that caters to both customers online, and in stores across the country.  Sarah Ibeabuchi started her business in 2019 when she began selling her products on the street. Now she is building a luxury hair brand across South Africa. And with customers that include Nhlanhla Mafu, Thembi Seete, Connie Ferguson, and many other celebrities and influencers - Ibeabuchi’s dream may soon be within reach. “My main dream is to create the best luxury hair in the world, dreams start small,” she said.  She is a self-taught stylist who said she was driven by a passion for her work.  “I gained experience over the years working with a lot of individuals,” she added.  So popular is her brand that the business won best hair brand of the year at the African Choice Awards 4th Edition in Lagos, Nigeria on Sunday.  Ibeabuchi employs 50 people across the country and is looking to add new branches. She currently has eight branches including in Alberton, Durban Cape Town, Midrand, Nelspruit, Rustenburg and East London.  The online business - which has a following of over 280 000 - promotes and sells products online - ranging from R1 800 to R7 000 for a wig.  Ibeabuchi said the online store has helped expand their business across South Africa. She explained that they source their products from local suppliers, as well as global retailers, to ensure that they supply their customers with the best product.  “We believe that quality hair should last and not need replacement weeks later.”  “We believe in confidence. Confidence is often not considered as a skill for hairstylists, however, it is one of the most important skills you need to become an expert in the industry.” Small business owners are also looking to capitalise on this trend. Thandie Landu started a small business in 2016 selling wigs as a means of earning a second income. “The support that I am getting is so overwhelming,” she said, adding that the money she made was supplementing her income. She said her clients are mostly referrals from her existing clientele. “I don’t have a salon yet but am looking forward to owning one in the future,” she said.  23-year-old University of Cape Town student Ayabusiswa Jele said when she isn’t working on completing her statistics degree, she is making extra money braiding hair.  As a self-taught stylist, Jele said she grew up with a creative mind that made it easy for her to teach herself how to braid.  She said that when she went to university she decided to use her skills and turned them into a side-business.  “My clients are mainly students from my university, however, I do have other people outside university who find out about my work and make use of my services,” she said. “I  prefer house calls because I feel like my dorm is my personal space. I plan on having a chain of salons across the country one day. I haven’t started acting on that dream of mine though. I’m still just a hairdresser at res.” Jele charges R350 per appointment and works on the weekend, taking only three clients, so that her side-business does not interrupt her school work.  Weekend Argus