Loyiso Manga, the man behind an award-winning extra virgin olive oil brand, is looking to expand his business by operating a farm that explores all things olives.  Manga gained popularity with his brand of olive oil, Ubuntu, in 2019 – two years after he founded his business. Now Manga is looking to grow his own olives and become the farmer he always dreamt of being.  The 37-year-old plans to plant and press his own olives. Visitors to the farm will also be treated to an olive experience which includes the picking and pressing of olives and seeing how this oil comes to life. “There is no recipe for quick success. It takes hard work, passion and believing in yourself.” Manga obtained his honours degree at Helderberg College in Somerset West in 2010, but yearned for the world of agriculture.  After his studies, he returned to his home town in the Eastern Cape looking for a piece of land that he could cultivate.  After a failed business venture, Manga returned to Cape Town in 2018 and started working as a financial adviser and then a call centre agent while working on his business on the side.  Prior to launching his business, Manga scoured the market, looking for a gap in which he could specialise.  After conducting his research and visiting several farms and markets, he discovered and fell in love with olive oil.  Initially he obtained his oil from a farm in Swartland, but after two years he now gets oil from a farm in the Swellendam area.  “It was very difficult to find a quality farm that would ensure that I could put a top-quality product on the shelf and sell it,” he said.  Manga said he tried on several occasions to get financing from the state to buy his own farm, but after several attempts he approached the Land Bank for a loan.  He is hopeful that he will get news on the financing soon so that he can occupy the farm he has been eyeing by the end of April.  “Getting the farm would mean we own the value chain. We would increase olive production and invest in cash crops and make the farm a practical centre of learning for agriculture students in the Western Cape.”  The farm will also be used for olive tastings and weekend getaways. “If everyone tells you no, keep fighting. It’s your dream, not other people’s. It’s our time to take up space,” he added.  Access to land for up-and-coming black, female and previously disadvantaged farmers has long been a challenge.  In 2017 a land audit by the Department of of Rural Development and Land reform found that 72% of farm and agricultural land was held by white people, and only 4% was held by black people. Last year, Minister of Agriculture, Land Reform and Rural Development Thoko Didiza launched a R3.2-billion blended finance scheme with the Land Bank to assist farmers.  Manga said he plans to have his farm operational by the end of the year. “Passion has always been the vehicle to get me where I want to be. I want to become a multimillionaire entrepreneur and strive to inspire others to follow in my footsteps. We need to start building our future and pave the way for those who come after us," he said. Ubuntu Extra Virgin Olive Oil won an award at the 2019 SA Olive Awards, as well as a Gold Award at the World Olive Oil Competition. His brand is also available at Woolworths and Manga is working on its application to get it into various other retailers.  “It’s a long process and tedious process, but when you see your hard work pay off, it’s worth it.” Daniel Johnson, spokesperson for the Western Cape MEC for Agriculture Ivan Meyer, said entrepreneurs in the agricultural sector faced some challenges in gaining market access. “It is not so difficult for fresh produce if the product meets the market requirements because there are many ways to sell it, for example formal versus informal markets.” However, for processed products, there were a few hurdles to overcome, including retailers’ requirements for the adherence to various standards, which were costly for some entrepreneurs.  “This then becomes the major hindrance to market access. Also, if access is granted there are also additional marketing costs that the agri-preneur must take into consideration to ensure sales.” Despite the challenges, Manga remains hopeful about the future and his business.  “I cannot wait to occupy my own farm and start building on the dream I envisioned for myself and my brand. I can feel it,” he said. Weekend Argus