Two Cape beauticians who turned their homes into beauty parlours are determined to stay afloat despite the challenges of load shedding.  Valencia Sass and Marilyn Andreas opened their respective businesses after they found themselves unemployed, but were determined to make the best out of the situation they each found themselves in. Now the two entrepreneurs say they are driven, more than ever, to make their ventures a success despite the havoc worsening power cuts have on small businesses.  Sass started her business shortly after she lost her job as a beauty therapist on cruise ships in 2020 when the Covid-19 pandemic hit. Like many others who worked abroad, the 27-year-old had to return to South Africa with the hope of finding a job in an already saturated market.  “I was happy on the ships and really enjoyed my work, when we suddenly had to come home. I sat here and didn’t know what to do with myself,” she explained. Sass said shortly after her return she worked at a nearby salon for a while before deciding to branch out on her own and run her business from her parents’ home with money she had saved up from working abroad. “The money I earned was far too little, and then my sister, Jaydey, asked why I didn’t start my own business.” Despite her trepidation about starting her own venture, with the support of her sister she got down to work and Sass Spa was born.  She uses the front room of her parents’ house for her business and is happy with its growth over the last two years.  “I have my regular clientele, new monthly clients, as well as those who pamper themselves every second month or so.” Sass Spa offers everything from waxing to massages, as well as manicures and pedicures.  A proud Sass said she was happy with the support she received from the local community and how, despite their hardships, women continued to treat themselves to a spa day.  “It doesn’t matter if they just come to paint their nails or for a massage. I strive to offer them a break from the world, somewhere they can sit and relax while someone takes care of and pampers them. Everyone deserves a treat.” She said how she treats her clients, irrespective of how much they spend, was an important element of her business.  She said the ongoing load shedding was affecting her growing business.  “There is, of course, a loss of income when it comes to load shedding because everything works with electricity in our industry, from the UV lamp to the waxing pot. It requires a lot of adjustment and scheduling, but we are making the best of the situation at hand,” she said.  Andreas started her business, Polished Perfection by Marilyn, in 2017 while she and her husband were unemployed.  The 32-year-old said she always had a love for nails and make-up and decided to make a living out of it. Andreas said a big challenge for small business owners was learning to take care of every aspect of the business, from marketing to finances.  Andreas added that she has learnt to adapt to load shedding and has since purchased a rechargeable UV lamp nail dryer.  “At first it hit me hard. I could only book clients certain times and had to scramble to get them done. Load shedding has had a significant impact on my business, but at least now I can still do people’s nails while the power is out.” Weekend Argus