A group that identifies itself as #StandUpSA on social media has been granted permission to march to Eskom’s Megawatt Park in Sunninghill over the load shedding crisis. This comes as the country has been plunged into Stage 4 to Stage 6 load shedding since the start of the year. This national shutdown planned for next month comes just as Eskom has been granted a tariff increase of over 18% by the National Energy Regulator of SA (Nersa). Last week, Nersa granted Eskom's revenue application of 18.65% after lengthy deliberations by the electricity subcommittee. It is reported that households and businesses will begin paying for this increase from April 1, 2023. Eskom initially applied for a massive electricity hike in June, 2021, amounting to a recovery of R351 billion from Eskom’s standard and non-standard tariff customers. Nersa subsequently signed off on R318bn, which equates to an 18.65% tariff increase. In a statement issued on Monday, the group said it will take to the streets on Thursday, February 2, 2023 a week after the DA plans to march to the ANC’s Luthuli House headquarters on Wednesday, January 25. “On Thursday, February 2, 2023 #StandUpSA is taking the fight for electricity to Megawatt Park in Sunninghill. We will be marching from Sunninghill taxi rank to Eskom’s headquarters,” the group said. They are demanding reliable and affordable supplies of electricity. The march will be joined by individuals, civil society movements, and religious groups in a bid to deliver a memorandum of demands to the Eskom board. “Eskom’s failure to supply enough electricity to efficiently run the country’s affairs is well documented. The impact of load shedding has been crippling for businesses, domestic life, and our mental health as citizens of the country. We will no longer accept this type of abuse from Eskom,” Njabulo Shabangu of the #StandUpSA said. The voices of discontent against Eskom continue to grow with planned marches as well as a civil lawsuit against the power utility that is being initiated by a group of lawyers led by Mabuza Attorneys. The lawyers are demanding that there be no load shedding without procedural fairness and reasonable opportunity for affected individuals and businesses to make alternative arrangements. According to EWN, the group is also demanding that the 18.65% tariff increase granted by Nersa not be implemented, pending the court challenge that they intend to institute. The Joburg metro police department had yet to confirm the validity of the planned shutdown at the time of publication.