The family of a 26-year-old mother of four who survived after being scalped during a dog attack nearly two weeks ago said they were frustrated by the police’s lack of interest in the case. They said they have been waiting since the day of the incident, January 19, for the detective at Melton Rose police station to officially take Ronel Lewis’s victim statement about the attack. The past few days have been a painful and traumatic process for the young mother, who is undergoing skin grafting at Tygerberg Hospital. The family have confirmed that skin from one of her legs has been removed in order for skin grafting to be done on her scalp. The wound is large and gaping. Her right ear was ripped off during the dog attack and surgeons have also had to close a hole in her stomach. Stitches were also removed from her limbs. Lewis is 12 weeks pregnant and has four other children, who are in the care of relatives. On the day of the incident in Penhill, Lewis, who does gardening, had been passing by when she was attacked by three dogs, one of which was a pit bull and two others a cross-breed Rottweiler. Lewis’s personal belongings were also stolen during the incident. Lewis’s aunt, Louise Dowries, said the family was frustrated by the police’s slow response to the victim. “We have been waiting on the detective since last week to take Ronel’s statement. “He needs to come now as she is able to talk and remembers what happened on the day. “This happened on the night of the incident as well where we had to wait for Melton Rose police to come to the scene.” She said the family was also left without financial support after Lewis’s SA Social Security Agency card was stolen during the attack. “She also lost her identity card,” she said. “We are not going to leave this case like this. “She is undergoing skin grafting after skin was removed from her leg to place on her scalp and doctors found a hole in her stomach which they closed up.” Julia Maranyane, a neighbour where the incident took place, said the community was rallying together to help the young mother: “Many are reaching out to the family. People are collecting food and funds for the relatives to travel to Tygerberg.” She said the community had mixed feelings after the dogs were removed by law enforcement. The City’s Law Enforcement confirmed that all three dogs were removed from the owner’s premises by Friday, January 20, and that he would be facing a charge in terms of the Animal Keeping by-law. During a previous interview with the “Weekend Argus”, the owner claimed the incident was an accident and that his dogs were trying to protect him. He claimed Lewis had jumped onto him for safety and that his dogs believed he was in danger though there was no threat. The police are yet to respond on the matter.  Weekend Argus