If something is too good to be true, then it probably is. This is the warning of the South African Police as people are becoming victims of an employment scam at local hospitals. They have cautioned that cyber criminals are exploiting the speed, convenience and anonymity of the internet to commit a diverse range of criminal activities. Groote Schuur Hospital has seen an increase in employment scams via social media where work opportunities are promised in return for money. The police, together with the Department of Labour, said any payment required for employment should signal a red flag. They are encouraging people to report it as a form of extortion. Groote Schuur spokesperson Alaric Jacobs said they had been unable to open a case because the crime is being committed via social media. “These criminals are creating posts which are fake on social media, (saying) there are jobs available at the hospital. They supply a cellphone number and then they chat with their victims. “Eventually they get offered a job and then the person asks them to pay money for a uniform, or for medical testing. The victim then pays over the money via an EFT or Shoprite banking. “These victims are told to report to the hospital the next day to start working. When they arrive at the hospital, we have to inform them they have been scammed,” Jacobs added. He said they had asked some of the victims to open a case with police.  “It's so sad, because most of the time people spend their last cash to pay these people. The hospital has taken a few people to the police station to assist them to open a case.” Jacobs said victims have paid  between R2 000 and R3 000. He added people should recognise it is a scam, because the hospital advertises work opportunities strictly via the Western Cape Government Website and via the media. The latest incident, earlier this week, saw a job hopeful scammed of R2 000. “Our plea to job seekers is to not fall prey to these scammers. They should use the official recruitment channels should they be interested in any job at the hospital.”  Provincial Department of Labour spokesperson Teboho Thejane said people should be wary in making any payments for work opportunities. “If and when we become aware of fraud activities being conducted using our name, we issue warnings and outline the ESSA as well Z83 application process which doesn’t require any payment as applying for jobs is free,” Thejane added. Police spokesperson, Lieutenant-Colonel Malcolm Pojie said people should educate themselves on how to keep their lives private on social media by creating secure passwords and utilising anti-virus networks. “We are inundated with scams that are doing the rounds; electronic, as well as other forms of fraud.  However, many people who fall prey to these schemes are unwilling or ashamed to lay formal complaints. Despite many awareness campaigns, some people are still ignorant to tips shared and remain vulnerable.” He said having a firewall was the first line of cyber defence. In addition to this, other safety measures include: creating strong passwords that are changed regularly; using anti-virus; setting social media accounts to private; and, protecting your data like ID numbers and financial records.  Report all incidents  of extortion to their local SAPS without hesitation, or contact Crime Stop at 08600 10111, or access the MySaps app. Extortion-related scams can be reported on the Provincial Extortion Hotline, which is 0800 314 444 or, alternatively, 021 466 0011. Weekend Argus