South Africa cricketing legend and Primrose Cricket Club stalwart Abdurahman “Lefty” Adams, died on Friday at 84. Fondly known as “Lefty” or “Boeta Maan” in the cricket fraternity, Adams was highly respected on the pitch and for taking on the battle for non-racial sport during apartheid. His death was described by Mickaeel Collier, a Primrose Cricket Club executive as a great loss to the club and cricket. “A mighty oak has fallen.” “He believed in sportsmanship. He always said his story has always been about ‘us’, about the players on the field, the players off the field and the spectators,” he said.  Adams was taught these principles at an early age by his family. Adams was born in 1939 in Rondebosch. He began playing cricket at the tender age of nine. Like many others who grew up on the Cape Flats during apartheid there were no school cricket structures. So, like many other children, he resorted to playing street cricket close to the banks of the Black River, in the shadow of Newlands cricket ground. “It was hallowed turf he would never be allowed to play on during his illustrious career, which saw him rated as South Africa’s best spinner across white and black cricket,” said Collier. When he was 16, Adams began playing formal cricket for the Pirates Cricket Club and walked out onto the field for the first team side. He went on to represent the Eastern Province three years later when he went there for work. He returned to Cape Town in 1960, where he continued to play for Pirates. Soon thereafter he moved to Kimberley for a year where he played for Griquas. When he return to Cape Town, he was selected for Western Province. He was then approached by Walmers Cricket Club, who needed some guidance. Pirates generously gave him leave for two years. Pirates then joined with a local club in Rylands to form Pioneers and he played for this new club in the Metropolitan Cup. In 1976, he joined the likes of Ebrahim “Braima” Isaacs at Primrose Cricket Club.  Collier said for “Boeta Maan”, the Primrose success story was always about “us and not I”.  Colliers said “Boeta Maan” built wonderful on and off-the field friendships. He wowed spectators and players alike as a left-handed spinner, and that is where he gained his nickname Lefty, explained Collier in pure admiration. “As a left-arm spin bowler, he was a legend – and a master of flight, guile and old-fashioned mind games. His 122 wickets in 27 first-class games at a strike rate of 15.47 is evidence of his pure class,“ Collier said. During the 1990s he served as a coach/team manager for the Primrose first team and had to lead a young side, supported by senior players such as Saait Magiet and Fuad Benjamin. The team was playing in the B Division at the time, and was joined by English professional, Nasser Hussain, who would later captain England. Not only had Adams perfected the art of a left-handed spinner, he was skilled with a bat, too. His best bowling figures were in the 1979-80 season, when he was already 41-years-old, speak volumes for themselves: 6-7 in an innings, and 10-15 for a match. Figures that few spinners, if any, have been able to match. At the age of 42, he was asked to come out of retirement to take over from the legendary Rushdie Majiet. He then took over the management of the WP team and was a selector for three years. Collier said: “He left behind a legacy that we will still ponder on for years. He was an exceptional sportsman, and many aspiring cricketers could learn from him. When playing a team sport it's not about you, it's about the team. He will be greatly missed.” Vincent Barnes, a friend of Adams, said he was saddened to hear of the passing of the legendary cricketer and his good friend “Boeta Maan”. He said the cricketer was “as tough as nails and did not know the meaning of the word defeat”. “One of the most memorable provincial matches I played in was when we had to defend 62 in the second innings against EP (Eastern Province). As we sat quietly in the changeroom before going out to bowl, Lefty, who was our captain, made this comment: ‘Ek is 42 en 42 is hulle naam’.  “He marched out of the changeroom, took the new ball with me. EP was mesmerised by the skill of the man, 42 all out,“ Barnes said. Adams is survived by his children Shamir, Fayrouz, and Faseegha and grandchildren. “We pray that God Almighty Allah forgive his shortcomings, widen his grave and fill it with light and raise “Boeta Maan” to the highest stages of Heaven, Insha-Allah, Ameen,” Collier concluded. Western Province Cricket Association also paid tribute to Adams.  The association’s president Ashraf Burns said: ” A wily left arm spinner who would have represented his country if not for apartheid. Our heartfelt condolences to his children, the loved ones and Primrose CC family.“ WP legend Vincent Barnes also recalled some memorable moments while playing with Lefty: “Tough as nails and did not know the meaning of the word defeat.  Lefty, a highly respected stalwart in the fight for non-racial sport in our country, will be missed.”   Weekend Argus