Fifty-four Kraaifontein matriculants who were nurtured and prepared by a local peer mentoring programme for their matric exams have become triumphant in this year's National Senior Certificate (NSC) results amid challenges. The peer mentoring programme gold Youth Peer Education Programme in Kraaifontein, forms part of an umbrella programme that runs in five countries – South Africa, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Zambia and Rwanda. The programme equips students and moulds them for their matriculation year in various initiatives that enhance their academic, social and wellness needs. Thandi Matasana, a matric pupil from Masibambane Secondary School who has been with the programme since Grade 9, is excited about her matric result success. “I am so excited. My family has come to celebrate with me in numbers at home. I am very glad to have passed so well, my family is confident that I will be accepted at university with my results,” she said. Iviwe Lize said though his subjects were difficult, he managed to succeed. “I am not excited but I am happy. I had difficult subjects so I did not expect much. But I am happy and have learned to never give up,” he said. Stakeholder manager and facilitator of the programme, Vusumzi Mpofu, said the programme worked with three schools in Kraaifontein; Masibambane Secondary School, Bloekombos Secondary School and Hector Peterson Secondary School. Mpofu said he was proud of the learners who have had worked tremendously hard and displayed determination and discipline. “These matriculants have shown immense strength. They’ve given themselves wholeheartedly and attended retreat camps we offered which were used for studying, tutoring and preparing for the matric examinations. They have even gone three weeks without electricity amid their matric examinations. They could never be broken,” he said. Christopher Mzamo, the site co-ordinator of the programme, said the learners worked hard, and showed immense dedication. “The matriculants were performing well during the year academically. All our matriculants were in the top five or top ten in most schools. We have equipped them as a programme and I know they are ready for the world,” he said.