With all the talk about closing the digital divide in the country, a young Nyanga entrepreneur is on a drive to bring internet access to all citizens. Not an easy feat, not even for those who have been in the industry for long, but township citizens can now have information at their disposal and make online transactions, thanks to Sky Internet SA. Founded in 2019 by 29-year-old Lorna Mlonzi, the company provides connectivity solutions to underserved communities. “The main objective was to provide low-cost and reliable internet access to underserviced townships. The company has rolled out internet fibre in Gugulethu, Langa, Nyanga, Khayelitsha and Kraaifontein and we soon hope to cover other areas in the Western Cape with the ultimate aim of branching out nationally,” said Mlonzi. In an era where internet connectivity has been vital for business continuity amid challenges brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic, Mlonzi’s business has offered support to small and medium-sized businesses in townships as well as non-profit organisations. In 2021 statistics showed that out of more than 60 million citizens, South Africa had 38.13 million active internet users. “Our services are tailored for local and international companies and aim to provide the latest technologies in the fields of internet, communications, telecommunication, wireless technologies and optical fibre solutions,” explained Mlonzi. Mlonzi’s entry into the sector was not accidental. “I always wanted to study information technology (IT) and when I got to university I discovered Information Communications Technology (ICT), which offered a wider scope, and I decided on following it,” she said. However, after graduating from Cape Peninsula University of Technology, she found it hard to secure a job without the requisite experience. “I realised that I will have to work my way up and gain exposure to various facets of ICT and experience, and the journey led me to telecommunications companies such as Cell C, Vodacom, Dimension Data and RSA Web, among others. I carefully studied the needs of lower-income households for fast, reliable internet fibre connectivity.” Funding and getting licensing were the next hurdles that Mlonzi had to overcome before starting the company, which she believes helps to transform communities. At a time when there were no fibre lines in the townships, one internet company advised Sky Internet SA that it should have at least 1 000 fibre subscribers on its network before it could partner with it. However, a Sweden investor believed in Mlonzi’s vision for her business venture and agreed to invest in Sky Internet SA. “Access to the internet enabled me, as a black woman and a product of the township, to access information which changed my life professionally and my personal development. “Through Sky Internet SA I aim to help empower many people as internet connectivity also helps to tackle socio-economic issues,” said Mlonzi, adding that online call centres and individuals working remotely have helped keep the business and economy running. Mlonzi and her team of eight engineers and marketing staff were determined to break the barriers to internet access. “It’s easy to lay the infrastructure. We want to build partnerships with entrepreneurs in ICT and provide support as we understand the market better.” In an environment known for criminal extortion from businesses, Mlonzi said she understood the systemic root causes but had also found a way to handle and work around such issues. “One of the reactions we constantly receive from people is that the service is ‘too good to be true’, and that’s because they have been excluded from the digital revolution for a long time,” she explained.