Durban - KwaZulu-Natal’s top-performing pupils in the Class of 2022 have one thing in common: they all believe hard work remains the key to achieving academic success.  The diligent group received high accolades at an event held to coincide with the announcement of the 2022 matric results on Friday.  The gathering at the Bethsaida Ministries International Church in Phoenix was aimed at celebrating matriculants who had performed exceptionally well in their National Senior Certificate examinations.  Among the top achievers was 18-year-old Nikita Govender from Mountview Secondary School in Verulam, who snatched first place in the province with seven distinctions – in a school that is rated quintile 4. The quintile rating distinguishes schools based on the relative affluence of the areas in which they are situated.  The prodigy, who was at a loss for words, said the triumph was made possible through her hard work and dedication to her studies.  “I am absolutely thrilled! There are so many emotions which I can describe in so many words, but I am also absolutely speechless. “When it comes to studying, I like to prepare way in advance just to make my workload lighter and easier to manage. It takes the stress off. I tend to take a lot of breaks as a reward for completing sections.  It also keeps me motivated and working hard,” she said. She said that she had encountered her fair share of challenges in the pursuit of her qualification, and that, apart from load shedding and the floods, another major challenge for her had been dealing with anxiety, as it often resulted in her suffering severe stomach cramps.  She also faced difficulty with maintaining focus, but the support of her family and friends had alleviated the pressure. Govender said she would be pursing a qualification in the medical field. “For this year, I plan on studying medicine at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, and I have been made an offer, which I have accepted.  From the time I was little, I was very sickly, as I suffered with asthma and took chronic medication, which I still do. So the hospital was like my second home, and seeing how the paediatricians treated me and other children, inspired me to pursue medical studies,” she said.  Govender’s advice to the youth was to develop their own study method and find ways to be as efficient and productive as possible. “Everybody studies differently. Trying to imitate somebody else will not help you in the long run. You need to find out what you need and do what it takes to achieve your goals,” she said.  Mthokozisi Nkomo, 18, from Impiyamandla High School in the Harry Gwala District Municipality, was another top achiever. Nkomo said he was still in disbelief about his results. He got distinctions in all of the seven subjects he wrote. In addition, Nkomo claimed first place in the physical science category nationally. He further emphasised the need for everyone undertaking their Grade 12 studies to engage in introspection.  “Self-introspection is a very important element if you wish to be successful. It is the most powerful weapon. It is important to sit down and ask yourself who you really are, what your capabilities are, and which study method is suitable for you,” he said.  Nkomo plans to pursue a qualification in medicine at UKZN, which he says is still to be confirmed, as he has not received an offer as yet. Jamie Cartwright, from Eden College in Durban, who came fourth in the Independent Schools category, clinched seven distinctions. He said he was pleased with his results.  “I am very happy with most of my marks, although there are a few subjects which I feel I could have done much better in, but it is over and I am happy,” he said. He said he intended pursuing his studies overseas.  “I plan on going to Australia to study for a Bachelor of Science degree, with a major in Computer Science. I have not yet been accepted as I am still to submit my final results and then we’ll take it from there,” said Cartwright.  He said those who wished to succeed in matric should build an interest in their subject choices, in order for it not to feel like a chore and be naturally motivated to go the extra mile.  Sinakhokonke Siyaya, 17, from Newcastle, who attended Phendukani High School in Madadeni, got eight distinctions. She said undertaking her final exams had been a daunting and hectic experience, as she had struggled to manage her time properly, but she had eventually found her feet. Siyaya said she planned to study medicine at UCT SUNDAY TRIBUNE