Cape Town - Two Mozambican nationals were sentenced to 18 years behind bars after they were caught red-handed with a fresh rhino carcass at the Kruger National Park last year. July Sihlangu, 33, and Sergio Mathebula, 32, were sentenced at the Skukuza Regional Court to 22 years but will effectively serve 18 years’ imprisonment. Both accused were found guilty on charges of trespassing in a national park, illegal possession of firearm and ammunition, as well as the killing of a rhino. The management at the KNP said this should be a warning to fellow poachers. The duo were arrested on September 21 by field rangers at the KNP after shots were heard and a fresh rhino carcass was found in their vicinity. Heavy artillery used for rhino hunting, such as a rifle and ammunition, and two rhino horns were confiscated on the same day. The State had successfully proven its case after linking the horn and carcass which were found at the scene. The managing executive of the KNP, Oscar Mthimkhulu, congratulated all who contributed to the arrest and conviction. “We are glad to have removed a pair of criminals and poaching equipment from the system. We know there are big role-players who still need to come to trial and hope they too will face the might of the law like their ground troops. “The collaboration between all law enforcement agencies is important for us to get on top of the situation. “The recent arrests, convictions and sentences should serve as a warning to criminals that we are serious about protecting our natural heritage and will continue in memory of our colleagues who paid the ultimate price in their work.” The Skukuza Regional Court has had a 100% conviction rate since the beginning of the year and has vowed to continue to convict anyone who hunts illegally in a national park. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Monica Nyuswa said a number of weapons had been found in the men’s possession. “Sihlangu and Mathebula were convicted of trespassing, contravention of Immigration Act, possession of a firearm with a serial number obliterated, possession of ammunition, killing of a rhino and possession of an axe. “Rangers of Kruger National Park were doing their routine when they spotted Sihlangu and Mathebula around Malelane Section. “They apprehended them and found them in possession of a hunting rifle with a serial number obliterated, two live  ammunition, an axe and two fresh rhino horns. The rangers went back to the place where they spotted the accused and found a carcass and subsequently arrested them. “In court the State led evidence of a ballistic report confirming that the firearm that was found in their possession was a 375 rifle that was used to kill the rhino. The court found the pair guilty as charged. “The National Prosecuting Authority welcomes the sentence imposed to the accused and lauded the hard work done by the prosecutor and the investigating team.” Last year, Nico Jacobs, founder of Rhino 911, told “Weekend Argus” there were only about 4 000 black rhinos and 13 000 rhino in southern Africa. Rhino 911 is a non-profit organisation established for the protection of the species in South Africa. Jacobs and his team, who are all volunteers, are racing against time in a bid to save the species and conserve the rhino, which is often shot for its horn in the belief that it has medicinal qualities. “Weekend Argus” reported that 451 rhino were poached in South Africa in 2021, 327 within government reserves and 124 on private property. According to savetherhino.org, South Africa holds most of the world’s rhinos, with more than 1 000 rhinos killed each year between 2013 and 2017. According to an article in “The New York Times” in July 2020, where Jacobs himself was interviewed, it was revealed that more than 9 000 rhinos had been poached in the past decade. Weekend Argus