Magician and mentalist Brendon Peel is set to make a magical return to Cape Town TV screens this year with the second season of his popular show - The Wow Factor.  Peel, who has graced the stages of some international TV shows, has returned to Cape Town to record the instalment of his latest offering.  The Gqebera-born performer said the fans were in for a great show. "The show aims to make audiences say wow. It is incredible that the first season did so well and that we are now back for a second season. I can't wait to wow audiences." The magic bug bit Peel at the age of eight when he received a magic kit as a gift from his mother. He didn't realise the extent of the art at the time, but with time, he quickly learned that magic was his passion. “I watched David Blaine on television and was mesmerised by him. This gave rise to me starting to experiment with magic,” he said. By the time he was 14, Peel was performing at children's parties and restaurants. In 2011, he performed for the first time in Grahamstown at the National Arts Festival. "Since that first year, I returned every year to perform there. I have  since featured on Britain's as well as Romania's Got Talent and an international TV-series Magic Caught on Camera,“ he added.  Peel is booked and busy and added that he will soon be performing on cruise ships. Peel has a degree in journalism and drama and obtained an MBA  from Rhodes University, which he said aids him in managing his business as a magician and mentalist. And what exactly is a mentalist?  "Mentalism is a performing art in which its practitioners, known as mentalists, appear to demonstrate highly developed mental or intuitive abilities."  Peel  linked magic to music, where there are different genres, and mentalism is the genre in which he specialises. The 29-year-old said his advice to emerging or aspiring magicians would be to take their craft seriously and invest in making it a success.   "Work with what you have at your disposal. Buy a deck of cards, coins – you don't need intricate props to start. You also need to refine your craft. Do research, watch other magicians, do courses. It will help you in the long run," he added. Pearl Muthivha, commissioning editor and executive producer at Cape Town TV, said the show created a “wow factor", with elements of entertainment, upliftment and involvement  highlighted in each episode.  The show aims to reveal the real ‘magic’ of Cape Town, its people and places. "The Wow Factor show makes use of creative and entertaining visuals to keep viewers engaged, and all footage recorded and edited in the highest quality. There are two segments in the show with ‘street magic’ and studio performances and interviews.“ Viewers can look forward to more magic from Peel, to show them wow and amazing tricks and magic that they have not witnessed on live television.  "We are hoping to have the show broadcasting early May after wrapping production,“ she quipped.  Weekend Argus