Cape Town - While adults can control what kind of food they consume, children don’t yet have that ability, so they eat whatever is available to them, which might have an effect on their health if they are not taught healthy eating habits at an early age. Unathi Jacobs, who is a mother and works with kids, said children always learn from their parents and that they are the ones who need to introduce healthy eating habits to them for the sake of their health and to avoid frequenting at expensive doctor’s appointments. She said the biggest health danger that kids face these days is obesity, which can be very difficult to control even when the kids get older. “It all starts by introducing fun healthy meals through their snacks and also with how you cook meals at home. It is also how you prepare the meals as much as you try to make them healthy, but they also have to look appetising and interesting to the kids,” said Jacobs. According to the KidsHealth.org it all starts with family meals as a comforting ritual for both parents and kids. It says children like the predictability of family meals and parents get a chance to catch up with their kids. “Kids who take part in regular family meals are also more likely to eat fruits, vegetables and grains (and) less likely to snack on unhealthy foods,” reads the website. The website provides the following basic guidelines: Work fruits and vegetables into the daily routine, aiming for the goal of at least five servings a day. Be sure you serve fruit or vegetables at every meal. Make it easy for kids to choose healthy snacks by keeping fruits and vegetables on hand and ready to eat. Other good snacks include low-fat yoghurt, peanut butter and celery, or whole-grain crackers and cheese. Serve lean meats and other good sources of protein, such as fish, eggs, beans and nuts. Choose whole-grain breads and cereals so kids get more fibre. Limit fat intake by avoiding fried foods and choosing healthier cooking methods, such as broiling, grilling, roasting and steaming. Limit fast food and low-nutrient snacks, such as chips and candy. Limit sugary drinks, such as soft drinks and fruit-flavoured drinks.