Cape Town - It has been two weeks since the schools have commenced and there are still learners who are not placed yet. There are a number of learners who are still waiting on the Department of Education to place them to the schools they applied for. Lindelwa Madiloyi said she applied in May 2022 for her children, but they had not yet been placed and the department told her to wait for an admission SMS. She applied for Grade 3 and Grade 8, but for both classes her children have not been placed and she is even thinking of going back to the Eastern Cape and look for a school. “I am losing hope and I want my children to go school, they are still young to miss a year of school. I went to the department more than four times this month and I have no money left now,” she said. Zukiswa Ndawana has the same problem and said the department told her to wait for 10 days because they tried to call her and her phone was on voice mail. “I blame the Department of Education for all of this, they should have sent me an SMS or an email so that I would know if my child was placed or not, now I have to wait for 10 days and my child is missing out on school work,” said Ndawana. Bronagh Hammond one of the spokespersons in the Western Cape Department of Education said as of January 12 they had resolved 117 844 which is 99.2% of the Grade 1 and Grade 8 placement requests for the 2023 school year and were in the process of placing 955 (0.8% of the Grade 1 and Grade 8 learners) for the 2023 school year. The WCED opens up its application process as early as March the previous school year in order to finalise as many applications by June of that year so that appropriate planning can commence. “We (are) also seeing parents refuse placement offered to them as it is not their first school of choice. While we understand that parents have preferences on what school they would like to send their child to, the reality is that some of the schools are more popular than others and receive hundreds if not thousands of applications for just 100-200 spaces,” said Hammond. He added that parents at district offices had been provided with printed curriculum packs with worksheets for learners in their respective cohorts. Weekend Argus