Alleged Parliament arsonist Zandile Mafe’s lawyer said he would not have been opposed to the trial continuing without the accused, after the State proposed instituting section 159.  The section, in the Criminal Procedure Act, would allow for the trial to continue without the accused being present in court. This as Mafe once again refused to attend the fourth pre-trial hearing.  Advocate Mervyn Menigo representing the State suggested to Judge Mokgoatji Dolamo that section 159 be enforced in Mafe’s absenteeism. Judge Dolamo refused this suggestion and Mafe’s defence did not get an opportunity to weigh in on the State’s suggestion.  However, his lawyer, Luvuyo Godla, expressed that he would not have had a problem if section 159 had been enforced by the court yesterday (FRIDAY). “I would have had no problem. I would have been so pleased because I would have raised the initial issues I wanted to raise with the court,” he said. Cape Town lawyer Labiek Samuels said that section 159 could be enforced for various reasons and that it was not a common practice. “Maybe an accused’s conduct in court is unwarranted, or he continues to be absent. Section 159 is not common practice. My opinion is, what is the rush to get the matter to proceed and have client’s matters that are ongoing since 2016?” he said. Godla agreed that section 159 was not common practice in South African courts. “Courts are reluctant to impose section 159 because it infringes on the rights of the accused. This is especially in matters such as my client’s, who may be ordered to go for mental assessment. Such orders are likely to be made in the presence of the accused. “In cases where 159 may have been evoked, the accused may have been hospitalised or due to extreme situations,” he said. Jappie Malatsi, a legal practitioner, said that section 159 was an absolute last resort and could only be enforced when all measures had been taken and exhausted. “Evoking section 159 prematurely takes away the right of the accused to have a fair trial. Sections 77, 78 and 79 of the Criminal Procedure Act must be evoked first before section 159 is enforced,” he said. Outside the court, Godla said he was adamant that his client was innocent and that he did not commit arson. Mafe, who turned 50 last month, has been in the State’s custody since his arrest on January 2, 2022. He is charged with housebreaking with intent to commit arson, terrorism and theft.  The next pre-trial date was moved to February 10 at the Western Cape High Court.