Cape Town – There might be some shades of darkness but mayor Geordin Hill-Lewis remains optimistic and determined to be a proactive servant with a well- maintained balance between his personal and political life. While he is the  youngest mayor to wear the City’s mayoral chain and tends to the service delivery of millions of residents, at home he is a father and husband with the duties that come with those titles.  He said his day starts by dropping his daughter at school and later, after his busy schedules he finds a solace in one of the popular retail pages. "That’s my commitment to spend at least that time with her daily. Other than that, I try to be disciplined and set some boundaries for personal space and time. This is very important to me. I’m not interested in being a good mayor and a bad dad," he said. Hill-Lewis said this as he reflects on the time since he was sworn into office in November 2021. He said he finds satisfaction in knowing that he plays a bigger part in changing lives. "It is really fulfilling to see a complex problem that impacts on lots of people, figure out what we can do about it within our means, and then see some progress over time. I’m grateful to all of them for their support, and for each person who does something small – like pick up litter – for helping to make Cape Town a bit better for the future. "I can’t possibly let all of the complaints get me down, otherwise I’ll be a very down person. I understand that even if we get it wrong 1% of the time, in a city of 5 million people, there will still be 50 000 angry people. We have to just keep focused and always try to do better," said Hill-Lewis. He said dealing with issues like homelessness and sewer infrastructure problems in the city was a complex and difficult task. "It is worse than I thought, and I thought it was bad. But I believe we are on the way to fixing it; it will take the entire term in office though. "The stubbornness of violence and crime in Cape Town. We know SAPS is struggling, so we’ve thrown so many of our own resources into seeing positive change here, and it has not yet come, or only slightly. We have some way to go, but we are not getting tired; not by a long shot. "South Africa’s social problems will take generations to fix. But at the moment we are headed in the wrong direction. What we can do now is move the ball down field, and try to set up institutions and invest in infrastructure now that will deliver economic growth for decades, and lift people out of poverty," he said. Hill-Lewis said his focus in the office would remain on making Cape Town safer, ending load shedding and growing the economy to create jobs and get people out of poverty.  Capetonians have mixed reactions towards his progress, with some approving and wishing him well.  Clive Cox said: "I think he is doing a great job under difficult circumstances. I think his priorities are right. The more they improve the more they will be able to improve the lot of the poor." But, Oscar P Bougardt said: "Like all other mayors before him, with the exception of Dan Plato, this mayor is in office for pay and like all politicians, a lying clown. Clean audit se voet;  why doesn't he investigate serious allegations of the City wasting billions. The poor and vulnerable still suffer while he gets a big fat pay cheque." Fawzia Veerasamy said as a young mayor, Geordin-Lewis had forgotten about the elderly.  "He’s done nothing to improve their lives; same s**t, just a different younger face. Day hospitals are run like animal sanctuaries. Seniors suffer the most; the forgotten victims."  Caroline van Wyk raised her concern over the lack of support for the members of the Walking Bus, saying they're playing a significant role, saving children from being hurt or going missing on the roads, but not getting compensated by the municipality. Hill-Lewis explained that the Walking Bus didn’t exist anymore and was replaced by the facility and protection officers. He further said the City acknowledged senior citizens. Among its efforts are the discounts available to seniors who are struggling with their rates and service charges. Cape Peninsula University of Technology political analyst Dr Kuhle Zwakala said Hill-Lewis needed to ensure that services reached all and he should deal with the key factors derailing the progress in the marginalised areas. "We live in a corrupt society, so a clean audit is exemplary to other municipalities. However, it can only be noted but not celebrated as the Cape Town remains segregatory, with only some services delivered. “The City of Cape Town prioritises certain areas within its demographics, leaving many in the townships and the Cape Flats living in undesirable conditions. This perpetuates the gap and the inequality which the city is known for. (Only) until this has been resolved, can we celebrate these kinds of achievements," he said.