While the country’s hospitality sector is recording a recovery from the Covid-19 slump, its performance still lags behind that of its African counterparts, according to data released by Statistics SA. Between January and December 2022, about 5.7 million foreign tourists visited South Africa, spending R59 billion. However, a joint survey by the Federated Hospitality Association of South Africa (Fedhasa) and South African Tourism (SAT) also showed that South Africa’s tourist arrivals for the year were 44% behind pre-pandemic levels, while the UN World Tourism Organization’s global average was 35%. The data also showed that although the recovery seemed to be accelerating towards the last part of 2022, several of South Africa’s important markets pre-Covid were slow to return, such as Italy (-50%), France (-54%), Brazil (-81%) and Asia  (-62%). “We are behind our African competitors and have a lot of ground to catch up which requires a focused all-of-government approach to remove any constraints that hamper the hospitality sector’s ability to grow and create jobs,” said Lee-Anne Singer, Fedhasa Cape chairperson. The survey, run among tourism and hospitality businesses, further indicated that while 50% saw better festive season bookings in 2022 compared with 2019, 18% of the businesses recorded the same performance while 32% were worse off. According to Singer, African countries that performed better were located in East Africa and were South Africa’s main competitors. “They were open a lot earlier than we were in terms of travel restrictions and very much on the bucket list for high-end travellers from the UK who are driving recovery,” she said. “The tourism and hospitality sector deeply desires to be part of the solution to job creation in South Africa and its potential has been widely acknowledged by the government. “However, our members tell us that their ability to do so is severely constrained by basic infrastructure failures and red tape, which is completely within the government’s control. If they are serious about job creation, it’s time to take tourism seriously,” added Singer. She called on the government to improve water supply and sewerage to some towns. The rising costs of unreliable energy supply were also cited as some of the impediments to tourism recovery. Cape Town’s performance was ahead of other places in South Africa, with its tourist arrivals recorded at 4% behind pre-pandemic levels. Singer also said that among tourism and hospitality businesses, while 50% saw better festive season bookings in 2022 compared with 2019, 18% saw the same performance and 32% were worse off. The city’s performance was attributed to a focused approach which included air access and cruising, resulting in 75 ship visits carrying more than 195 000 arriving visitors, and a 71% domestic and 96% international recovery at Cape Town International Airport. The 2023 Tourism Sentiment Index (TSI) placed three Western Cape towns, namely Cape Town, Stellenbosch and Hermanus, as among the 100 most-loved destinations around the world. MEC of Finance and Economic Opportunities Mireille Wenger said the provincial government would continue to collaborate with stakeholders across the tourism and hospitality sector to attract more tourists. This week, mayor Geordin Hill-Lewis launched Cape Town as the gateway to Antarctica with a five-hour direct flight from Cape Town. “Antarctic tourism is growing rapidly, with more and more tourists making the trip to this truly unique destination. At the moment, many tourists depart from elsewhere, but Cape Town is undoubtedly the best place to come before heading to Antarctica,” he said. Weekend Argus