Cape Town – The Cape Coloured Congress (CCC) has yet again sparked controversy over its beliefs following an acceptance of a new white member in the political party recently, which is deemed as a deviation. Social media was buzzing with mixed reactions when former communist and socialist Paul Bester, a known local unionist and former ANC member, joined the CCC, with some critics saying Bester had no idea what he was doing, while many questioned the loyalty of the leadership. Ever since the party was launched in 2020, it made it clear it was for the Cape coloured community in the Western Cape, and it has been fighting for the community’s rights at a local capacity. They won seven seats at the City of Cape Town council elections and secured at least one in the Saldanha Bay Municipality during the 2021 elections. Yet, just a year into the national elections, its leader, Fadiel Adams, revealed the growth is beyond their expectation – attracting people of all races and from different cities. He said they've since gained support in the Karoo, Gqeberha, Durban, Bloemfontein and Swaartland. This is despite being vocal about fighting for Cape Independence and localism. Political analyst Zwelinzima Ndevu suggested that this is a desperate move by the party to grow its numbers before the elections, which he said is likely to dent the party in the long run. "It doesn't matter how they justify it, people take your first word and vote based on trust and loyalty. They made promises to people who still suffer from the wounds of the past and are looking for a political home. If they keep changing their beliefs, people are likely to question their loyalty and capabilities, and, yes, they might have huge support on the ground, but only the elections determine whom people believe in.  “People don't care about skin colour; they want to know what you can do for them, they care about their needs. We have seen this happening with other parties when their approach was also based on race – they are proof that race politics have no place in a democratic country, and I think that's what CCC has come to realise, hence, now allowing everyone to join them," Ndevu said. CCC president Fadiel Adams said, “It's a myth that people chose to believe that the Cape Coloured Congress is for the coloured people only. Our membership is open to all who believe in and shares our values, putting the marginalised community first. That's what Paul was brave enough to prove to us and we're looking forward to working with him to build this party and our communities.” “He's not the first white person. We have a ward councillor in Ocean View who's already our ward councillor,” he explained. Bester said he wasn't shocked by the criticism of his political choice but rather by the apparent racism that transpired “after decades in to our supposed democracy, people still use the colour of your skin to determine where you fit in”.  “CCC doesn't speak race but equality; they are for the needs of the people on the ground and you'll find them among the people not in the boardroom or the high places. "I have been a loyal member of the ANC all these years, and this has always crossed my mind when I started seeing the corruption and politics of the stomach within the party. Only last year, when my membership lapsed, I decided to not renew it. I informed the party. It's the people with very little information that worry about my decision and intentions. I am glad that the leaders believed in me and we'll now focus on what is to come and work for the people," said Bester.