Born and bred in Fish Hoek, Terence Bridgett has been gracing our television screens for the past 25 years. Over the past two decades Bridgett has been in local soapies or telenovelas. The Cape Town actor made his television debut in Hotnodsgode and then appeared in various dramas, sitcoms and soapies before landing the role of Chico Booysens in SABC3's Isidingo - one of his longest running characters and also his favourite one. Bridgett attended the Drakensberg Boys Choir School and graduated from UCT Drama School with a BA and also received a Fleur du Cap nomination for Most Promising Student. Twenty five years ago Bridgett left the Mother City for the City of Gold, Johannesburg where his career took off in front of camera and he has not looked back since. He has returned home occasionally to do a musical, a Shakespeare or a series. Never longer than a three month stretch. Now he’s back for a long-standing job and has settled indefinitely. “It is absolutely spectacular to be home in the city as a working professional. The industry this side has opened up exponentially and I am grateful to be back on the screens of South Africans every night,” he said. Although it may have seemed like Bridgett left our screens, he never really did. The only difference was instead of doing soapies (which he is known for) he has made guest appearances on various series such as Legacy, Recipes for Love and Murder as well as the Netflix-series, Ludik. “It  has been a while since I’ve been on a daily soap or telenovela but it is great to be back and I can’t wait for viewers to get to know my character,” he said. Bridgett is referring to Anthony George Saayman in Arendsvlei. “Anthony is essentially a good man who is placed in a very complicated and conflicted position. He has a desperate need to belong, and viewers need to understand that he is a victim of his circumstances,” he said. He will be playing opposite the talented Kim Syster who plays his character’s wife. “Kim made her television debut years ago playing my daughter. And now she’s playing my wife. What a full circle.” When Bridgett, is not acting he spends time with his other love - teaching. “I teach secondary school kids as well as final year tertiary students on screen acting and Shakespeare. I am passing on the craft and find it utterly rewarding and quite extraordinary. I love doing it,” he said excitedly. And how does one stay relevant when you’ve been in the industry for more than 25 years? He laughingly and answered: “Diversification is key to sustainability. Hone your craft as much as you can. Be a sponge. Learn as much as you can. Have a few irons in the fire and do not box yourself.” He also writes, produces and directs broadcast content for various clients in the corporate market. Bridgett also has a company named The Fixer - an audition preparation and self tape hub and personal performance coach business that he established in recent years. “I am busy with my second cabaret show, Oopgeskeur, set to hit the festival circuit in 2024, directing a show at Beefcakes, writing and producing for the corporate market, teaching as well as producing season 2 of Rof of Spog (Rough or Smooth). And I’m engaged to be married in three years time - a Cape Town as well as a London wedding. I’m going to be a bridezilla twice,” he laughs.  After his absence, it is safe to say that Bridgett is back, booked and busy! Weekend Argus