Cape Town - Aishah Cassiem, a former investigative journalist and PR councillor for the City of Cape Town, was recently sworn in as the Western Cape Provincial Legislature's youngest member at 30 years old, making her the youngest MPL in the entire nation. Cassiem, who joined politics in 2013, is also currently in her third year at the University of South Africa (UNISA) studying towards a BA in Government, Administration, and Development Studies. She was also listed as a Mail & Guardian Top 200 Young South African in 2021. “I first heard about the EFF in 2013, before the organisation was launched, on a TV show I presented, where I interviewed the then Western Cape EFF convenor, Nazier Paulsen, on the EFF’s stance on Palestine. I think I instantly fell in love with the organisation and what it stands for, casting my first official vote to the EFF at the age of 19,” said Cassiem. She said a year later, after the interview, she got married to Paulsen, and the two now have a daughter. “I guess this is where politics started getting interesting for me —witnessing the EFF’s programmes and understanding the reasons behind their manifesto, along with the family becoming heavily active as volunteers for the organisation. This also led me to study the history of the country, to get a better understanding of our current conditions, which currently perpetuate our inequality,” said Cassiem. In 2022, Cassiem was elected as the treasurer for the EFF Western Cape Provincial Command Team. She stated that one of her political goals is to see land expropriation and free quality education implemented in South Africa. “We need to rid this country of this corrupt government to take back our country. While we are still in the hands of the corrupt, our people will forever suffer without any changes to their lives. SA will continue to be an underdeveloped country until changes are made,” said Cassiem. She said among her top priorities at the legislature will be housing. “Land is the biggest issue when it comes to the housing crisis. Without land, we have nothing and can do nothing. There are over 400 informal settlements in the metro alone, and many have been vacant for several years, with the housing budget returned to the national treasury unused.” She added that the government needs to invest in small micro and medium enterprises (SMME) if it wants to expand the size of the economy because SMMEs provide a tremendous opportunity for growth and the absorption of unemployment. “Although fishing is not a provincial competency, the province does have responsibility over small harbours. So we need to provide facilities for small-scale fishermen to be involved in all stages of the fishing value change. We must provide facilities for them to process and package their catch and create an enabling environment for small-scale fishers to build viable and sustainable businesses,” Cassiem said. EFF provincial spokesperson Wandile Kabise described Cassiem as a dedicated and disciplined member of the organisation. “Aishah Cassiem, is a very dedicated member of the EFF who will serve our movement well in the legislature. She is the epitome of a leader who is in touch with the realities of the people on the ground. As the EFF in the Western Cape, we wish MPL Cassiem well in this role as a member of Parliament in the Western Cape Legislature,” said Kabise.