“I don’t want to go to Valkenberg ... Do not take me to Valkenberg” were the words that came out of the infuriated alleged parliament arsonist, as he walked out of the dock this morning. Fifth time was a charm for Zandile Mafe’s appearance, who appeared at his pre-trial this morning. Mafe is known for his absenteeism at all his past pre-trial hearings. Although the relief was evident in the court, Mafe refused to appear before the judge until food was brought to him first, which a member of the police went to get.  Judge Nathan Erasmus began by relaying that the purpose of the proceedings was to establish the merits of Mafe’s psychological referral. He informed the court that such a matter involved many delays and that the mental health board had told the court of overcrowding in many institutions of psychoanalysis. Both the State and Mafe’s lawyers agreed that the court could grant a referral. The State argued that the recommendations suggested that Mafe be referred to Valkenberg. The State seemed adamant in this argument, which the judge refuted by stating that other options could be explored before he issued an order. Another court return was that of advocate Dali Mpofu who forms part of Mafe’s legal team. He argued that there were institutions that could be considered and that Mafe was adamant that he did not need psychological evaluation, but was willing to comply. Erasmus raised concerns about Valkenberg and the waiting list at the institution. The State confirmed that there were currently 111 people on the waiting list, Mafe being number 112. The judge expressed discomfort at the State’s suggestion that Mafe could be prioritised as this would prejudice those above him on the waiting list. “We need to consider the fact that there are many in dire need of the services offered at the institution, prioritising the accused over them may prejudice those on the waiting list,” he said.  The judge anticipated that a waiting list at Valkenberg would delay the trial until 2025. He cited national importance as the reason he wanted this matter to be in motion.  Mafe requested through Mpofu to have a Setswana interpreter, as that was his mother tongue. He no longer wanted an interpreter in isiXhosa. “My lord, my client has just notified me that he no longer wants an interpreter in isiXhosa. His mother tongue is Setswana, if the court is unable to provide a Setswana interpreter, I can try my best to interpret for him,” Mpofu said.  The interpreter was able to translate to Mafe. An agitated Mafe shook his head each time Valkenberg was mentioned. The matter was moved to February 24, to allow both legal teams to identify an independent psychologist for the court’s approval. Mafe will remain in police custody until the next court appearance. As he left the court, he exclaimed that whatever the court wanted, he did not want to be taken to Valkenberg. The hugely anticipated court hearing took place a day after the state of the nation address ,which has positioned South Africa’s parliament in the Cape Town city hall, for the second time since the fire.