The LGBTQIA+ community is hoping for important pronouncements regarding their status during President Cyril Ramaphosa’s State of the Nation Address (Sona) on Thursday  While LGBTQIA+ organisations and activists agree that the president had acknowledged the community, many believe he could  do more.  Cape Town activist Clive Jacobs believes that the South African constitution has afforded the government the opportunity to acknowledge and recognise the community, and its needs. “More than anything, we are human beings and the human aspect of our identities must be protected. The government has done a lot to ensure the LGBTQIA+ is heard and seen but more can be done in terms of company policies to ensure LGBTQIA+ members are lifted up and groomed for leadership positions and influence,” he said. Gender activist Liberty Matthyse of Gender Dynamix said the president in his past SONA speeches had acknowledged the LGBTQIA+ community, and there was a political commitment to ensuring integration of the community. “We have seen the work of the government and the ally government has been for the community, we have seen the government speak and acknowledge the LGBTQIA+ community, and we appreciate the inclusivity efforts it has made. We do, however, want to see a follow through to its pledges and promises,” she said. LGBTQIA advocacy group, Iranti says they had seen the president in the past addressing issues around gender-based violence, femicide, hate crimes and human rights violations taking place in South Africa, particularly the brutal attacks on LGBTQIA+ persons, but feel more can be done. “While these efforts are noted, we are calling on the President to go further and directly address the myriad of issues facing the LGBTQIA+ community. We want the President to commit state officials and state resources to ensuring an end to discrimination and of violence against LGBTQIA+ people, as envisaged by our Constitution. “In South Africa, no express law exists for transgender and non-binary (people) to amend their gender markers on their identification documents, except for Act 49. Act 49 allows transgender persons, who have begun their medical transition, (hormonal or surgically) and intersex persons to change the sex descriptor on their identity documents, to reflect their gender identity. This law is currently being challenged by trans and intersex movements, who have applied for amendments to the Department of Home Affairs. “We demand legal protection for intersex people and we demand a sit down discussion between ourselves and healthcare policy makers to put an end to this practice.When President Ramaphosa addresses all three arms of the state and the rest of South Africa on 9 February 2023, we want to be included. We want our voices heard. We want to be addressed as part of South Africa,” Iranti said.