President Cyril Ramaphosa presents his seventh State of the Nation Address on Thursday in the midst of a crippling energy crisis, a slowing economy, a pandemic of violence against women and children, and rising unemployment. SONA2023: After 40 days of load shedding this year, Ramaphosa to make blackouts a top priority President Cyril Ramaphosa’s office has hinted that he will on Thursday address the electricity crisis as Eskom continues to implement rolling blackouts. This comes as political parties, civil society, unions and other stakeholders urged Ramaphosa to deal with socio-economic challenges facing the country. READ THE FULL STORY HERE. WATCH: Police on high alert ahead of SONA2023 This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Video: Ayanda Ndamane Sona protesters hit policing snag, but protests continue in Hanover Street With frustrations against the government already peaking, a number of unions and civil society organisations that had various grievances they wished to be heard today through marches and protests were prevented from leaving Hanover Street to conduct further demonstration activities. READ THE FULL STORY HERE. WATCH: Everything you need to know about the State of the Nation Address This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Video: Tracey Adams WATCH: Mounted Police patrol Cape Town CBD ahead of SONA 2023 This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Video: Armand Hough SONA2023: Everything you need to know about the State of the Nation address and how it is convened The State of the Nation address, or more commonly referred to as Sona, is a joint sitting of the two Houses of Parliament and one of the rare occasions that brings together the three arms of the state under one roof. Sona provides the president with an opportunity to speak to the nation on the general state of South Africa, to reflect on a wide range of political, economic and social matters within the domestic and global contexts, to account to the nation on the work of the government and to set out the government’s programme of action. Traditionally, the president makes key government announcements during this important joint sitting of Parliament. READ THE FULL STORY HERE. #SONA2023: There’s a special cabinet sitting that is looking into the possibility of declaring the energy state of disaster today.