Cape Town - A man with a big heart from Strand has been making dreams he could not fulfil for himself a reality for many young musicians in Cape Town. Zolani Ndlobe, founder of Ndlobe Music Entertainment, refused to allow poverty to harden his heart, but instead wants better for others. He has been assisting young traditional musicians with studio rentals and linking them with potential producers.  “Over the years I have been assisting local traditional musicians with booking local recording studios to record demos and then give them a platform to showcase their talents at local taxi ranks and showcases I organise for them. “I now run Ndlobe Music which is all self-funded. It hasn’t always been easy. Covid-19 in particular was difficult because I make my money from construction jobs that I get here and there. When there was no movement in the country, everything stopped. “I go as far as supporting my artists in times of tragedy. We had one of our artists shot in Khayelitsha and I assisted, helping people is what I love to do,” he said. Ndlobe who is from the Eastern Cape and came to Cape Town in pursuit of opportunities, says his passion is helping people and he sometimes forgets about himself or investing in his own family. “I have been in trouble with loved ones who have scolded me for investing in talent, and forgetting to invest in family matters. I don’t do that out of negligence. But I do it because of the selfless man I am,” he said. Yonela Gebengu from Idutywa in the Eastern Cape, who now lives in Delft, is one of the artists managed by Ndlobe. She said it has been an honour to have worked with him over the years. “Mr Ndlobe has been helpful to me and my career as an artist. He took me to the studio in 2019 to record my first single track titled ”Inkedama“, that I believe made me who I am today and what I have become. After recording that song, I started believing in myself and my ability, now I have four songs,” she said. Gebengu said through Ndlobe’s guidance, she has soared and been exposed to opportunities in the artistic genre. “In 2021 I  fulfilled the biggest dream of my life of entering the competition of Miss Indoni Cultural SA, where I got to showcase my talents, and when I did, by God’s grace I made it — becoming the representative of the Amaxhosa kingdom. Working with Mr Ndlobe opened doors for me and I’m still looking forward to more opportunities to come,” she said. Sizwe Mgwayibana from Delft is the artist manager for Ndlobe Music, and said the biggest challenge they faced was funding. He said they wish to find a sponsor who can assist them so that they can have good sound, transport and a place to conduct their studio sessions and meetings. Ndlobe said a local studio in the township can cost up to R10 000 and the more upmarket studios in town can cost more. “One has to hire a studio which has its own expense and a sound engineer that is a separate expense too. Funding would be appreciated, but until then I will continue to support these artists. Some have  no families, some some have families in the Eastern Cape and have no one in the Cape,” he said. Ndlobe said though he gets no “monetary gratitude” for his efforts, he is fulfilled by seeing those in need of support assisted.