A Cape Town actor has credited the work and dedication of a Swellendam teacher who started a drama club to get children off the streets - to his success. Ayden October, 20, burst onto the scene a few years ago and has since made a name for himself on TV and theatre productions. October was born and raised in a small town and joined  Swellendam’s Shack Theatre  which began as an after-school drama programme he was part of. The “Suidooster”, “Fraksie” and “Evita in Excelsior” star, said participation in the Shack Theatre had equipped him with values and had shaped him into an artist. Local teacher Freek Oerson who founded the Shack Theatre in his backyard in 2020, so that aspiring young actors from his community could hone their talent. The theatre took its name from the zinc sheets it was made of. In a small town where many children wander the streets and are faced with social ills such as drug and alcohol abuse and with little to no access to recreational facilities and activities, Oerson said he wanted to build something that combined his love for teaching and the arts. Oerson began teaching drama as an after-school programme in 2014. “This space cultivates a love and appreciation for theatre and storytelling among our community,” said Oerson. “I wanted to become an actor myself, but fortunately today I can combine my passion for teaching and theatre work. I'm pursuing both of my passions at the same time.” After-school sessions at the Shack theatre consist of improvisation exercises and games, voice work, physical theatre work, technical aspects (sound and lighting), and set design. “Most of the money generated from shows is divided among the drama company (students), and this makes them young entrepreneurs because they help with marketing, selling tickets and they ensure that we always have a full audience because they know that the money is divided amongst them,” he said. The theatre has 80 seats and has produced numerous shows, most of which were written and directed by Oerson. “These productions participate in various (local) drama festivals where they regularly receive trophies and incredibly good recognition.” October said the skills he learnt while at the drama club and the theatre had helped him over the years. “I developed a lot of confidence and great respect for the trade since I got involved. Telling stories also teaches me to empathise with other people's stories. As actors, we dig very deep into the psyche of a character and end up enriching ourselves with an enormous amount of emotional resilience,” he said. “Later this year I will be seen in the upcoming film, Old Righteous Blues. I also serve as a facilitator and director and direct our productions at the Shack Theatre.” Old Righteous Blues is the brainchild of writer and director Carol Shore and features artists such as Kevin Smith and Simon Bruinders. October added that theatre offered a number of benefits for communities, especially in small towns. “Drama provides a platform where (participants) make their voices heard, and it promotes creative thinking. It provokes thought and takes you on an emotional journey.  It goes without saying that theatrical storytelling is enriching for many.” He said work done at the theatre also equipped children with techniques to address everyday challenges. Oerson manages the Shack Theatre with his own finance which has been a challenge.  “We need support from government organisations so that our programmes and institution can flourish. “That is what we are striving towards. To create opportunities and give a voice and platform to those who want to pursue a career in the arts or just use this platform to keep busy and not wander the streets,” he added. Weekend Argus