Cape Town - The genetic background of your dog matters in how they behave. In recent months, dogs, particularly power breeds such as the pit bull, have been in the spotlight following a series of attacks and deaths of human beings. Last week, experts in the field said the temperament of power breeds, like the pit bull, boerboel and other terriers like the Jack Russel or Yorkie, had much to do with maintenance and understanding of their behaviour, having patience and compassion and how to respond to their aggression at times. Dog behaviourist and trainer at Kommetjie’s Canine College’s Taryn Blyth said the canine evolved from a wolf around the time that humans switched from a nomadic to an agricultural lifestyle. “As people settled into permanent villages, waste products were discarded outside of these villages. The dog’s ancestor was able to take advantage of this ready food supply and began scavenging on these “dumps”. “According to natural selection, those individuals that were the fittest for that environment – in this case, those that were able to tolerate human proximity better (shorter flight distance and higher threshold for fight/flight response to the smell or sound of humans) – were most successful and survived to pass on their genes to the next generation. “Over many generations, this process of variation, selection and further variation led to tamer and tamer individuals that eventually wandered around and into human settlements to take advantage of the food found there.” Blyth said the evolution of the canine was all about survival, even affecting its way of digestion  and use of its teeth or jaw for nutrition. “The alteration to predatory behaviour that has made the dog what it is today, is the main focus of this article. Becoming a scavenger and living among humans drastically altered the predatory behaviour sequence in dogs – unlike their wild ancestors, dogs are no longer hunters, but scavengers. In keeping with this, their skull, jaw and tooth size has been reduced significantly in proportion to their body size and dogs are able to more easily digest a much wider range of food sources. “However, remnants of the predatory sequence remained in early domestic dogs and humans took advantage of this to use dogs for various types of work.” Behaviourist Dr Aileen Pypers from Pets at Play agrees and developed into the dog's exterior presentation such as the coat to even having upright ears or a long snout.. She said Blyth had an exemplary explanation to better understand our pets who dominated our lives and even news headlines. “To understand dog 'breeds' we have to go back and look at when humans started selecting for animals that were good at performing specific functions and how this selection led to changes in what the animals looked like, in addition to their capabilities,” she explained. “This selection process ultimately led to changes in the genes of various breeds that are associated with the physical (long vs short coat, floppy vs upright ears, long vs short snouts) and temperament (high vs low energy, impulsivity, aggressiveness) traits that we tend to associate with specific breeds. “However, what we must always remember is that the genotype is influenced by various factors including the environment, to produce the phenotype. “For example, poor nutrition in the critical growth stages can lead to an adult dog who is much smaller than the size that their genetic potential may have allowed them to attain.” If you want to read more on genetics and dog behaviour visit Blyth website on: https://www.tarynblyth.co.za/genetics-and-behaviour Weekend Argus