Cape Town - In order to build and produce a well-balanced being with good academic results, Camps Bay High School doesn't just focus on the pupil's well-being but that of the parent as well. The school has been hosting a series of parent talks since 2021. The first one for this year will take place on February 16 at the school under the theme 'Containing the containers - Being intentional about self care as a parent'. Parents are urged to come in numbers. The school's social worker and counsellor, Twinita Pattenden, said the aim of these parent-talks is to empower and equip our parents in their ability to meet their children's needs. "The talks are inspired by the recognition that a child or teenager does not operate in isolation but are inextricably linked to their family, the parenting they receive and the emotional, social, cultural  and environmental factors that influence them on a daily basis. We can learn from each other, as raising children and teens really does take a village. Parenting teens today is very different from when their parents were teens, and it is very valuable to understand the challenges our teens face and how best to help them,” said Pattenden. "Equipping and supporting parents has a positive longer-term impact on the welfare of the whole school community. When parents are emotionally or physically unavailable to their children, be that through mental illness, physical illness, limited emotional resources or their own stress, it can have a direct impact on their children’s emotional well-being," she explained. According to Pattenden, the talks last about an hour and comprise staff members breaking down a chosen topic and then allowing the panel of guests to give input, and then parents are encouraged to mingle over a dinner party. "Our parents are very positive about the idea, and the events are well attended. Our numbers have ranged between 60 and 130 for the events thus far.  We currently have 809 learners in the school," she said. Principal, Louis Mostert said, "Our parents are very important to us, and as a school, we recognise that we operate within a community." He said the school currently has 809 learners. They usually get between 60 and 130 per event. Co-founder of the programme, Carol Van Der Spuy, said they previously covered topics like social media safety, gender and drug and alcohol abuse amongst teens, and are believed to have "a positive impact our learners."