Cape Town – What started off in a cramped garage at the home of the founder, Suraya Williams in Mitchells Plain will now expand into a multi-purpose skills development and textile manufacturing centre. This as the City of Cape Town signed off the much needed piece of land to the Design26 Foundation yesterday. The City announced its sale of land to this  non profit organisation focusing on women empowerment in the Cape Flats on January 31. In a statement James Vos, the mayco member for economic growth, said: “I am pleased that Council agreed to the sale at a discounted rate because of the long-term social and economic benefits of the training centre to the surrounding community and the metro at large.  “As a caring, well-run City, the transfer is based on an equitable and sustainable model for providing infrastructure to promote economic growth." Vos said because the land is used for schooling purposes, the City will not derive any financial gain from the transfer of the properties as the transfers would indirectly support economic growth in the long term, allowing the schools easier access to the necessary maintenance resources. Williams said the 1642m² will allow the Foundation to increase their reach from seven women per three months training to a bigger number, with a variety of skills training and other services to be offered at the anticipated centre. "I can't believe it, I am still processing the news. It's been quite a long but fruitful journey for the foundation since we started. I opened the doors in 2018 to equip young girls with basic sewing skills to help them earn a living, but the demand kept growing. I moved from the garage to my house to be able to provide a comfortable and sustainable learning environment. "In 2020 I approached the City to purchase the piece of land, there's so much paperwork, it's a long process but I wasn't going to give up. And today I got the exciting news. I am not just happy that I won, but I am excited that more women will now have access to our services," she said. Williams said on top of the textile and sewing programme the Foundation offers she hoped to expand it with free access to machinery, collaborative initiative to establish a manufacturing plant, to have an entrepreneurship hub, and an early childhood development facility to accommodate new moms. "We've realised that most of these girls we work with are unemployable due to various factors such as being school drop-outs, inadequate experience and exposure to opportunities and lack of support system, yet some would miss out of opportunities because there's no one to look after their babies," she explains. However, she said she would need to raise over R15 million to make their dream a reality. “It was my pleasure to put before Council another item that it authorised: the transfer to the Western Cape Provincial Government of 39 land parcels designated and used as schools,” Vos said.