Cape Town- Over R62 million will be pumped into fighting Gender-Based Violence (GBV) and supporting Victim Empowerment (VEP) this year, but volunteers and counsellors say the reality shows another picture. This week, MEC for Social Development Sharna Fernandez announced that they were allocating R62 866 000, 52% of the 2022/2023 budget, to the Victim Empowerment sector. They added that the funding would be seen at the 26 shelters in the province. In the last financial year R34 million was used for shelters. However, activists who run safe houses and work hand-in-hand with the department at VEP rooms and local police stations, have indicated that much had to be done to improve the quality of service, the infrastructure and equipment at the facilities. Activist for women and children’s rights and a victim empowerment room counsellor, Latifah Jacobs said often volunteers would fill the gap when there was a need and that such facilities were often neglected. “The question is what has happened to funding of VEP rooms and if you look at the state of those rooms, some are not in an acceptable state, it is done by the community. “A community organisation or volunteer would get the necessary things to make the place look acceptable and safe and comfortable for victims. Yes, we are well aware of the budget that is allocated, do we see it, no, we do not see it, where it is going, we do not know. “My question is, if that R62 million is being funded, what was given in the past? VEP rooms are not supposed to be inside a wendy house in a backyard where they cannot be seen. “There is a stinky old couch and old toys, does this mean that VEP rooms will be better equipped in the future with this funding?” Jacobs asked. Barbara Rass, an activist who runs House of Healing shelter in Atlantis, said how a victim is taken care of in the present and future was vital in their healing and that often this was neglected. “If you look around, we have more victims than survivors, even the survivors becomes victims because there is no follow up. There is no long walk to happiness. “They must prioritise and look at the struggling organisations that make a difference. The officials who are working in the field, they must be driving the projects and identify each area. “Even in the rural areas, for example in Riebeek-Kasteel, there is nothing happening. If there was something happening, then that family of the disabled woman who was raped allegedly by her relative would not be pleading for help after they were failed by authorities. “That child would have been taken to a place of safety. She is a victim of the systems. You cannot buy sweaters or pamphlets, the victims do not need that, they need places of safety and someone to walk with them on the road of despair,” she said. Fernandez's office said the funding would be spread widely for emergency beds and accommodation for victims at the various shelters. Her spokesperson,, Monique Mortlock-Malgas explained how the funding would be utilised. “This breaks down to a total of 49 emergency beds (accommodation up to 14 days), 400 Stage 1 beds (accommodation up to 3 months), and 64 Stage 2 beds (accommodation up to 1 year). “This was among the only programmes in the Department that did not experience budget cuts this year. But despite not incurring budget cuts, the sector has experienced a significant rise in operational costs. “The funding model for the shelters has improved significantly over the past five years, as the unit cost (cost per bed per month) has increased by 42%. “The funding model of the VEP shelters consists of: a unit cost per bed in the shelter, post funding for a social worker to ensure that services are at the agreed standard, and a further contribution towards the salary of three house mothers per shelter. This also includes support towards health, safety, and security along with a contribution towards skills development of shelter residents,” she said. This was supported by Fernandez who echoed that the private sector also had to get on board to help carry the critical load. “We appeal to the private sector to come on board and assist Non-Profit Organisations who provide this critical service. We cannot have facilities closing, as it would leave more victims at risk. “The Department has opened six new Gender-Based Violence shelters during 2021/22 and huge government investments were made towards the plight of GBV victims in the Western Cape,” she said. Weekend Argus