‘Calling Us Home“ is an unforgettable, epic musical. A three-month subscription to the “Weekend Argus” can see readers winning tickets to the musical production of “Calling Us Home” this Valentine’s week.  The production will be on show at the Artscape Theatre from February 15 to 19.  ‘Calling Us Home“ is an unforgettable, epic musical, fraught with danger, saved by love. The storyline follows leading lady Grace from her home in Africa where she flees a war and arrives at an American city penniless. There she finds a city ruled by an evil gang lord, Ivan, who sets his sights on Grace, but another man, the street-smart Rafael, a young construction worker with bold ambitions, is determined to capture her heart. Grace also befriends Rafael’s sister, Isabella, in a quest to build a new life.  The story is described as one of a great love that touches on some of humanity’s big issues, such as the plight of refugees, the many challenges women face and the need for greater empathy, understanding and care in an uncertain world. Playing the lead role of Grace is Cape Town-based Devonecia Swartz, with the roles of the American leads Rafael and Isabella being performed by Míchel Alejandro Castillo and Monica Tulia Ramirez respectively, both residing in New York, in the US. American director Peter Flynn said the South African theatre community is among the most generous and welcoming with whom he’s worked.  “I knew we had a terrific company of actors from auditions. Spending time with them altogether in the same room investigating this beautiful story confirms all my first impressions. I’m excited, moved, and very grateful,” he said.  Flynnn said rehearsals in preparation for the show were a daily experience of wonder, learning and collaboration. The production promises to move audience with its soaring music, drums that pulse the heartbeat of a continent, and by an amazing journey that will sweep you from the plains of Africa, across the sea, to the icy North of an American city.  The production’s composer, Alice Gillham, said: “It is the most exciting moment when, during the rehearsals, the libretto and the music come to life, and I cannot wait to share the extraordinary talent and energy of our wonderful cast with Cape Town audiences." SUBSCRIBE TO THE WEEKEND ARGUS FOR 3 MONTHS AND GET TWO TICKETS TO “CALLING US HOME” VALUED AT R780. To SUBSCRIBE SMS ‘WASUBS’, your name, surname and email address to 33258. This is a limited exclusive offer. SMS costs R1.50. Terms and conditions apply. Weekend Argus