Cape Town - Just days ago, Minister of Health, Dr Joe Phaala announced that two cases of cholera had been detected in South Africa, which had stemmed from Malawi. This week, the World Health Organisation confirmed that there was now a massive cholera outbreak in Malawi which was a concern with over 36 000 cases and 1 210 deaths reported from 29 districts. Two weeks ago, WHO regional director for Africa Dr Matshidiso Moeti said the lack of immunisation due to the global Covid-19 pandemic had seen a rise in cases of cholera and measles. In a statement, WHO said the outbreak began a year ago. “Cholera has been endemic in Malawi since 1998 with seasonal outbreaks reported during the rainy season, November through May,” it said. “However, the current outbreak has extended through the dry season, with cases being reported since March 2022.” The health agency said the outbreak had now been declared a public health emergency by the Malawi government, amid fears that conditions would worsen. It said the youth were also affected, from as young as 11 years old. “Since the beginning of the outbreak, and as of February 3, the age group 21 to 30 years is the most affected followed by the 11 to 20 age group. Of all the cases, 17 943 are males representing 57% of the case load. Most deaths have been reported among those aged 60 years and above as of January 29. Most deaths have occurred among males.” Phaala called for vigilance earlier this week. He explained that the cases in South Africa arose from sisters who had travelled together from Johannesburg to Malawi to attend a funeral service and returned via bus on January 30.  Another relative who was in close contact with one of the patients is now also deemed a possible case as laboratory test results are pending. According to the national health department spokesperson Foster Mohale, cholera is an acute enteric infection caused by the bacteria Vibrio cholerae, and the outbreaks usually occur in settings with inadequate sanitation and insufficient access to safe drinking water. Cholera typically causes acute watery diarrhoea and can affect people of all ages. “It mainly spreads through contaminated/polluted water,” said Mohale. “People can become infected directly through drinking contaminated water, or indirectly through eating contaminated food. The infection is often mild or without symptoms, but can sometimes be severe and life-threatening. “Symptoms ranges from mild to severe and watery diarrhoea and dehydration. The incubation period (the period from when the person ingests cholera-contaminated water/food to when they first become ill) ranges from a few hours to 5 days, usually 2 to 3 days.  “Most persons infected with cholera will experience mild illness or not feel ill.” Weekend Argus