Cape Town - The public has been invited to participate in a virtual meeting hosted by the City of Cape Town to address the issue of the newly discovered polyphagous shot hole borer beetle (PSHB). The meeting, which is among the City’s attempts to swiftly stop the spread of this invasive species, will take place this evening on Microsoft Teams. According to the City, the beetle was found on a box elder tree at a private property in Kildare Road on January 24. “The beetle is threatening our urban forest. This is a very serious and alarming situation as infested trees need to be chipped. I want to caution our communities not to be complacent, and to inspect all trees on private properties for symptoms of infestation,” deputy mayor and Mayco member for spatial planning and environment Eddie Andrews said. “At this online meeting, officials from our Invasive Species Unit will give important information on how to identify possible infestations, where to report it, and how to handle the chipped biomass. I urge residents to please attend this online meeting if possible, and to help us beat the beetle,” Andrews said. He said some trees in Newlands, Rondebosch, Mowbray and Claremont have already been infested, with the Liesbeeck River being identified as a priority pathway. Petro van Rhyn, the spokesperson for CapeNature, added that they were concerned about the potential impact of the invasive beetle on indigenous tree species in addition to its potential economic impacts in the agricultural and residential sectors. She said they were encouraging every effort to develop biological control for this species. “At this stage we do not know of any confirmed presence of the PSHB in any CapeNature Protected Area. We are, however, aware that the species has a low detection probability, and that specialised expertise is required in confirming presence, so our confidence in this conclusion is thus limited. “To minimise the chances of further spread of this beetle, CapeNature has unfortunately had to introduce restrictions on the movement of firewood into its protected areas which can harbour this tiny insect. As we do not yet have a means to control this beetle in the wild, preventing further spread is the only available option at this point in time,” said Van Rhyn. A resident, Jacquie Tooke, said they hope to attend the meeting. “We are still trying to get our heads around it. We are concerned and trying to educate ourselves,” she said. Interested parties are advised to use https://forms.gle/T7mUexES6Qi9sHnd9 for booking and for more information visit the City's website.