Children at Liesbeeck Primary School in Mitchells Plain had an adventure today when they were treated to different stories by the various role-players and icons in their community to celebrate World Read Aloud day on Wednesday, February 1. Children at Liesbeeck Primary School in Mitchells Plain were pleasantly flung into the world of reading by different role players in their communities. As part of World Read Aloud day, singers, writers, journalists and iconic sportsmen and relatives of symbolic and renowned activists took the time out to reach children from different grades. In attendance was Fatiema Haron-Masoet, the daughter of anti-apartheid activist, Imam Abdullah Haron. Late last year an inquest into Haron's death ,while in police detention in 1969, took place at the Cape High Court. Also at the school were Goolam Taliep, the Proteas over-50 squad cricketer; scriptwriter and director Boebie Hamza; Read2 Lead founder Nailah Kippie; philanthropist and author Rodney Brown; journalist, singer and songwriter Marsha Bothma. Each guest was given an opportunity to read for the various grades while the children were dressed as different characters and had reading time underneath a tree. Principal Wahied Gasant said reading opened up many doors for the children and he hoped it would lead to a culture of reading: “Through reading they are exposed to the world there and the possibilities. “Our school is fortunate and blessed with educators who genuinely want to make a difference and develop a love for reading. Our after-school reading programme focuses on Grade 4 learners and seeks to inculcate a love for reading for those learners who struggle with it.” Gasant said they wanted a library at the school and had made reading corners inside classrooms. Haron-Masoet said they were planting the seed for pupils and felt honoured to be part of the reading session for children: “We need to empower our children with reading. “We are duty bound as senior citizens to do so,” she said. “Our children are already living in a state of delusion with technology and we need to get them away from cellphones and into reading.” Teacher Irfaan Abrahams said they wanted to inspire children to read and empower themselves. “We have young teachers at our school and they have come on board, and we have teachers who have taken it upon themselves to help pupils to learn to read, even over the weekend. “We decided to have this programme today and break the shackles of Covid-19. Kids do not have to worry about the pronunciation, just to enjoy reading. We hope this will be the catalyst for children to develop a love of reading.” Weekend Argus