Cape Town - For 40 years the KFC Mini-Cricket programme has been well-loved and appreciated.  The programme grooms young aspiring cricketers and has gone from strength to strength over its four decades.  Earlier this week, the programme celebrated its 40th anniversary with a mini-cricket festival in Mitchells Plain.  Cricket South Africa mass participation co-ordinator, Buhle Motshegoa said this was the third Mini-Cricket Festival.  She said they were hosting these festivals because the programme had been around for a long time, proof that it was loved and appreciated. "As Cricket SA we just had to go back to communities that run the programme on a day-to-day. Spend the afternoon and just hear the people because our vision speaks about access, and this is exactly that," said Motshegoa. She added that this was grassroots level, and that;s where it all starts for aspiring cricketers. Fatima Kahla, a teacher at Cascade Primary School, said she had been on the programme since 2014. "It was all about bringing the kids out, letting the children have fun and time away from school. I am a firm believer that not everything happens in class. Children need to be exposed to other people outside the classroom," said Kahla. She added that they had two teams of learners, in grades 2 and 3, and it was all of their first time playing. "They were unsure at first, but they them realised it was all about coming out and having fun," she added.  Western Cape cricket player Nandre Burger said these festivals  had a positive impact on kids. “It gets them out and gets them active.  "I just think it shows them how much fun sport, especially cricket, can be. I think a day like today and us being here shows them that there is a career in cricket. If they work hard and chase their ambitions they can be professional sportsmen. It teaches them a lot of discipline. It’s a fun day out and takes me back to where it all began, all the roots, and just reminds you where I come from and why I play cricket at the end of the day, “ said Burger.