Cape Town - Since it was established 93 years ago, in 1920, the Cape Town Society for the Blind (CTSB) has been a shining light for blind and visually impaired people, helping them adapt to an ever-changing society. The CTSB was established by four women with the vision to enhance, support, and up-skill the lives of the blind and visually impaired people of Cape Town. The organisation is said to have become a beacon of hope for the blind community as it strives to create a sustainable environment for job creation, skills development, and training. Sandra Dreyer, who is the head of training at CTBS and is a former teacher who lost her sight about 18 years ago, said the centre has given her a sense of purpose in life and encouraged her to achieve things she thought she would never achieve. "We are a non-profit organisation. We educate and train people from all walks of life, starting from the ages of 18 to 55, for free, as long as you come to our doors for assistance. We pride ourselves on the work we do," said Dreyer. Among the other programmes and training the CTBS provides are life skills, basic and advanced international computer driving licenses, cane and material weaving, and braille education. The centre has also employed not only people who can see but also blind people, such as Sergil January, who works as a facilitator, who said he was not born blind but lost his vision when he was young. "My life changed a lot after joining the centre. I was also once a student here and worked my way up to be a facilitator. After losing my eyesight, it was very difficult for me to adjust to the reality of being blind. However, the skills I have gained here have uplifted me and taught me many things about how to live with blindness and move around," said January. CTSB’s Chief Executive Officer, Judith Coetzee, said the centre depends on funding from private donors and the government. They also sell some of the furniture, artwork, and crafts created by their students and also by their small business units, which are run by blind entrepreneurs working for the centre. She said blind people don’t want to be treated with kid gloves and that they have an intellectual capacity like anyone else. "Companies need to realise that blind people are not just receptionists, they can do any job, probably better than any average person. We need to start opening up to them and accepting them as average employees. Don’t be afraid to employ a blind person," said Coetzee.