Cape Town – Distance from schools, the rising cost of living and load shedding has seen many more parents going over to home schooling.  This is according to home schooling practitioners and parents who make teaching and learning work in their favour during the unpredictable load shedding schedules that have been implemented country-wide since last year. The power outages have been blamed for a number of failures in both the public and private sectors and its impact on economic growth. However, home scholars aren’t feeling the agony of the past 100 days, in which the nation  remained primarily between stages 3 and six. Bouwer van der Eems, the chairperson of SA Home Schoolers, said, “One of the benefits of home schooling is its flexibility. If power goes off you don’t have to worry about the task at hand. You swiftly move to the one that requires no electricity, or simply take a break in between, depending on your curriculum and your arrangements with your learners. “Most importantly we advised parents and teachers to become more energy resilient and to choose a curriculum of their preference and make it work. “While the world has gone digital, the reality is that load shedding is not going anywhere at any time soon so usual manual educational tools is better than relying on internet and power reliant platforms. For instance, books are a valuable asset to a successful education system and yet the practical side of learning system,” Van der Eems said. Brian Goemans, founder of the Catholic Home Schooling said although load shedding has little impact to their system, it has forced them to seek alternatives and be creative over the past few months. He said energy savers have been essential, and those who do group lessons are then balancing the schooling periods with physical activities, taking children to the fields for the duration of the outage and returingn to finish where they left off. Goemans said the numbers are growing tremendously. Home schooling parents, Michelle Richardson, started home schooling her son during lockdown and has never looked back.  “Load shedding became costly in the beginning as we now had to invest in energy saving methods, buying powerbanks, inverters and rechargeable batteries. Those were great investments and now we’ve figured out how to make the schedules work to our favour. I think under the circumstances home schooling is the best option as there is no pressure to complete tasks at a given time and failing to do so impacts your academic scores. Home school takes place at any time, anywhere with anyone as long the person is knowledgeable.” Millicent Merton, spokesperson for the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) admitted that home schooling is growing in the province due to “reasons including distance from the nearest school, financial constraints and health challenges.” She said there are currently 771 pupils registered for this year’s national certificate, and she advised that parents should use the services of a competent assessor to assess the progress of their child against the minimum outcomes and standards at the end of Grades 3, 6 and 9. “A parent should ensure that the results of assessment tasks such as tests and examinations are valid and reliable through implementing measures such as invigilation of the learner during the process of completion of such tasks,” Merton added.