Cape Town – With the 10-day-long Makro salary protest expected to come to an end tomorrow, the retailer warns the need to secure jobs and to look after the company’s profits must be taken into account when such actions are pursued. Brian Leroni, the senior vice-president for Massmart’s corporate affairs was responding to rumours about anticipated retrenchments following another national strike by thousands of Makro staff members affiliated with the SA Commercial, Catering and Allied Workers Union (Saccawu). The protest started on January 27 after the retailer failed to respond to the warning statement ahead of, reportedly, the longest strike their staff members had ever engaged in. The union demands a 12% wage increase and a two-year retrenchment moratorium for about 5 000 members since mid-2022. A minimum wage of R8 000, a commission improvement from 10% to 20% margin for salespeople are also among the demands. Said Leroni: “With respect to retrenchments, we haven’t said that they are imminent. Rather, we have said that there is a delicate balance to be achieved between increasing wages, creating job security and restoring our group-wide business to profitability.  “Makro employees have been paid above inflation increases of 8% each year for the past three years. Unfortunately the company cannot currently afford this level of increase without placing job security at risk.  “This is a reality that Saccawu is battling to come to terms with, which is inhibiting our ability to arrive at a realistic resolution to the current dispute.” He said the store had since been relying on their temporary staff who got extended hours to cover for the absent protesters. “As regards temporary employees, we have not necessarily hired many more people as much as we have increased the number of shifts that existing temporary employees work,” said Leroni. Saccawu spokesperson, Sithembele Tshwete, said Makro couldn’t use the loss suffered due to strike as an excuse for failure to reach an agreement, nor calling for retrenchments because “they’ve hired replacements to cover the operations. Those are one of the lies we won't accept”. He said the union would hold a meeting to assess the outcome of the protest today (February 4) and workers would return to work on Monday. He, however, said the fight isn’t over. “We will take a mandate from the workers about a way forward,” said Tshwete.