Cape Town – A Cape Town woman who is a current Guinness World Record holder, an advocate for mental health, recovering addict and eating disorder survivor, will be heading to Norway next month to attempt not one, but two, new Guinness World Records. Amber Fillary, 50,  completed a 90-metre single breath cold plunge, in Norway, wearing only a bikini and goggles. She sets off to Norway again next month, on a new mission to break two additional world records. She was inspired to break records after being introduced to free diving 10 years ago. She then landed up breaking the South African pool free diving records and getting her South African colours for free diving. “I then heard about the under-ice record, and thought I could swim in cold water so I wondered if I could hold my breath in such cold water, and discovered that I could. I decided to go for the record,” she said. The Newlands based record breaker will make her attempt by swimming more than 110 metres on a single breath, but then get straight back into the water to set a new Guinness World Record for the longest swim under ice on a single breath using a mono fin. The core reason behind Fillary’s record attempts, is to raise awareness of mental health issues plaguing many people in the world, especially after the global pandemic. She said she hopes that she can channel her record breaking accomplishments to inspire those who live with depression. “It is amazing but overwhelming at the same time. I hope through my achievements I can positively help people who suffer from depression and addictions then it is worth it. Plus, as I have broken both the men’s and women’s Guinness World Records is  good for women power,” she said. Fillary says that age is just a number as she is half a century old, yet she is still breaking records and pursuing her dreams. She shares how her disorder still challenges her at times, but took the decision to take her health back into her hands. “It has and still is a challenge, but it was only at the end of my twenties that I really accepted and took responsibility for my issues. I hope it becomes less stigmatised and more understood. I think it is slowly starting to go that way.” she said. Fillary says she looks forward to seeing her amazing team that will be assisting her in Norway and relaxing in a spa. “After the record, I look forward to the amazing spa. ‘The Well’ in Oslo is giving me two free nights at their hotel so I'm looking forward to that,” she said. Fillary jets off to Norway to attempt her two record breaking strides  on March 4 2023. Check Fillary in action as she breaks world record:  https://youtu.be/5zVxbIfKLBI