Cape Town - A seven-year-old from Blue Downs says cancer isn’t complicated to understand and every child should be taught about. Naylah Snyders participated in a cancer awareness day which focused at introducing children to the topic of childhood cancer at Austinville Community Hall in Blackheath. Naylah staged a solo protest outside the venue, holding up her pink hope placard with a big ribbon. While the organisers shared speeches with the crowd of young and old, Naylah broke down the topic for the children, saying: “Cancer is a disease that happens when bad cells stop good cells from doing their job and cause lumps called tumours. It’s important to inform children about cancer so they can be aware of the disease.” She said for her highlight of the event were the two female guest speakers, one who survived cancer and the other who is battling cancer, who inspired her to continue supporting those affected. “I brought a poster to show that I care about the people who are battling cancer. I want to say, ‘I am praying for you, stay strong and believe in yourself’,” said Naylah. She explained that she has two relatives who suffered from cancer. Founder of the Breathe Foundation, Silvia Craucamp, said there was still a long way to go to educate young and old about cancer, because childhood cancer is still overlooked. She said parents and children should know the basic symptoms of cancer so they could immediately seek help should they notice these,“ Craucamp said. “A fever that doesn’t go away, eye infection or unusual changes in the eye, lumps, prolonged joint pain and neurological disorders are the common symptoms, and it’s advisable to get a medical opinion if you’re not sure. “A child might not be the one suffering, but know someone who is. They should know what to expect and how to treat them. For instance children don’t understand when their friends are not at school for a long time, or when they start losing hair, or are no longer active. But if they understand what’s wrong, they will know how to communicate and approach the person. “Importantly, having cancer doesn’t mean someone is dying. There’s help, especially if detected at an early stage. From my observation at the event, children were curious about it and some knew people who are affected,” she said. Organiser Kaylib Mango, also an ambassador for Breathe Foundation, said they treated children to cupcakes topped with “cancer-related colours” and had entertainment by local models. The event was held in line with the International Cancer Day commemorated on February 4.