Love is just a swipe away, or that is what popular dating apps from Tinder to Badoo will have you believe.  But there are still people who find love the traditional way.  Either way, it's the month of love and couples share how the mischievous cherub Cupid shot his arrow into their hearts. Marie and Andrew Calvert’s is a more traditional love story while Kim and Morne Roman take the plunge online. Maree Jantjies-Calvert smilingly said everyone’s love stories are special but her story and that of her husband was her absolute favourite.  “We basically grew up together. He is originally from George and I am from Cape Town. Both our fathers are pastors in the same church, his father in the George congregation and my father in Cape Town.” The couple's parents have known each other for more than 40 years. “At church conferences and youth camps we saw each other and he always had to come to the Cape Town to write exams and he would stay with us.” Jantjies-Calvert said to her he was like brother. “He was and still is my best guy friend.” But in 2017, David eventually mustered the courage to tell Jantjies-Calvert how he feels. “I took the risk knowing that it would either spoil our relationship as friends or it could all work out perfectly and we could have our happily ever after.” David drove from George to Cape Town to proclaim his love to Jantjies-Calvert who was completely blindsided by his confession. “I didn’t know if I was coming or going, because here this man, whom I considered my best friend, is now telling me other things. At first I laughed and then confusion kicked in.” Calvert-Jantjies spent the whole weekend pondering the matter and then she realised “he was the man I always prayed for, I just didn’t know the Lord would let it turn out like this. Here we are today, we’ve been married for two years and our first baby is on the way.  We still laugh at the fact that he and I are married. We played together in the sand, experienced growing pains as teens and now we’re experiencing life as husband and wife – fairytales do exist.” Kim and Morne Roman’s is a modern-day love story. After being single for two years, Kim Roman decided to try the online dating scene. “Online dating was popular and I even had a couple of friends who tried the online dating scene. Despite the horror stories I used to hear about failed dates and dodgy guys just looking for hook-ups, I proceeded to create my online profile.” At first she checked out the profiles and she eventually started chatting. “After a couple of weeks, when they think they’ve gotten to know you well, they send the infamous ‘What’s your number? Let’s chat on WhatsApp’ line. By then you know, things are about to get personal, you’re obligated to keep a chat relationship going.” She took a chance and went on one date that turned out to be a bad experience. Then she met Morne on the app Badoo in October 2015. Roman played it safe and kept chatting to him online. In January the following year they planned their date. But Kim cancelled. “I got cold feet. Later that month we planned another meeting and I cancelled again but I genuinely had a family gathering that day which I couldn’t miss. The next month in February, we finally had our date.” The two were both shy, the date was awkward and Morne did not talk too much.  “He was reserved and quite frankly I wasn’t into that vibe. I wanted someone more bad boyish. A friend of mine whom I told about the date encouraged me to try another date with him, and she reckoned that perhaps I needed someone more laid back and less into things.” Kim decided to give it another chance. “Skipping to a few years later, we are now married. I am happy and fall more in love with him every day.” The Roman’s recently celebrated their first anniversary.  Weekend Argus