With over 10 years of explosive performances on the KDay stage, Mi Casa returns with new songs from their unreleased album at KDay this year. Kfm 94.5 and Samsung Galaxy KDay will take place on March 4 at the Meerendal Wine Estate and promises a summer music festival experience for friends and families. Away from the stage, festival-goers can enjoy fun activitions and a food village with the best festival tastes the Cape has to offer. Lead singer of the group J’Something shared with the “Weekend Argus” that Mi Casa felt “both nervous and blessed” to return to the K-Day stage. “The truth is, it makes us feel nervous and excited at the same time. We are so blessed to continuously receive the love that we receive from our fans at KDay. We are grateful for the wonderful love relationship that we have formed with KDay over the years,” he said. J’Something reminisced about the first time they performed on KDay stages and said the moment was big and he still felt the love and excitement that was in the air to this day. “It must’ve been about 10 years ago if I recall correctly, we were both excited and taken away at the love we were receiving from Cape Town. We were so grateful for the love and appreciation we were receiving from the fans,” he said. J’Something confirmed that they were currently in the studio, brewing some exciting and new music that will be performed for the first time at KDay. “Every time we perform at KDay we try to maximise the opportunity and give our best. This year we will perform never-heard songs from our upcoming album,” he said. KFM station manager Stephen Werner said they were “incredibly excited” to have Mi Casa, who have performed on their stages for over a decade. “Mi Casa are not only one of South Africa’s top music acts but a crowd favourite at Galaxy KDay. The trio have featured on our festival stage for over 10 years,” he said. Other artists  set to perform include Youngsta CPT, Will Linley, Nasty C,  Emo Adams and Kurt Darren. Galaxy KDay ticket prices:  general access (2yrs +) R350; general access kids (2-12 years) R160; Chill Zone (no under-18s) R650.