Cape Town - An Elsies River community leader has decried the murder of a 17-year-old boy – calling the shooting a “wake-up call” for improved policing in the area. The area’s Community Policing Forum (CPF) chairperson Imran Mukadam said details around the circumstances of the murder were still being gathered. The teen was gunned down in Naomi Street, Avonwood, shortly after 10am on Wednesday morning. Mukadam said while he couldn’t comment on whether the shooting was gang-related or not, the killing itself was shocking. “I don’t want to presume that it was. It is unfortunate that the 17-year-old boy was shot, execution style. “Any young boy shot, whether gang-related or not, is an unnecessary death, and he didn't deserve to die. No child or adult deserves to be shot in the head like a dog,” he said. He explained there had been numerous shooting incidents in the area in recent weeks, but there was not enough police visibility. “We have been reporting the incidents which have happened in the Avonwood area. We don’t think there is adequate response to the issues, there should be much more intense operations there like patrols by police and law enforcement officers. “There are too many guns floating around, especially in that area. Elsies River had been quiet, we had a few incidents here and there, but nothing serious. “This morning’s killing was like a wake-up call and very shocking. We condemn it and send our condolences to the family of the victim. We believe that more should be done to secure our area, I think not enough is done,” he said. Police spokesman Captain FC van Wyk said a case of murder had been registered for investigation. “Elsies River police are investigating a murder case following a shooting incident (Wednesday) morning in Naomi Street, Avonwood, in Elsies River, where a 17-year-old boy was shot and fatally wounded. “Circumstances surrounding this incident are under investigation. Suspects fled the scene and are yet to be arrested.” Anyone with information about this fatal shooting incident is kindly requested to anonymously contact Crime Stop 08600 10111. Weekend Argus