Cape Town - This month the LGBTQIA+ community is adamant to be a rainbow in the clouds for many as they continue their activism and initiatives. February is Pride Month in the Western Cape, and this year the LGBTQIA+ community is determined to continue the ongoing work they have committed themselves to daily in bringing change and making an impact in communities. Darion Adams from Manenberg has used his passion for dance and the arts to make a positive impact on his community. His cause has been to establish spaces where young people can gather and express themselves in a safe space. Through his work with organisations and festivals such as the annual Phefumula Arts Festival in Philippi, he has established his own organisation called AIM. AIM is a space where queer persons gather in the name of arts, and ascribes to non-binary identity. It is a space where queer persons are heard. “Some of the topics we want to unpack is GBV, safe sex within the queer community, consent, and we also plan to hold summits, screenings and classes,” he said. Adams through his AIM initiative has begun hosting dance classes at the Artscape. “Depending on the funding we receive, we fund those interested from the communities and some pay for themselves. We have in the past run free dance classes for more benefit,” he said. Adams continues his activism in being a vessel of hope and change through arts and dancing, and is excited about the upcoming work of his initiative this Pride Month. LGBTQIA+ activist Clive Jacobs within the greater Retreat area in Cape Town continues his dialogues and intervention programmes in schools. Jacobs continues to assist young boys and girls who are bullied in schools for their sexuality. “I continue my work, which is both for gay men and women. Some children are scared to speak to their parents. Some find themselves bullied and teased by either their teachers or classmates. This is where my activism comes in, I open the doors of my office to council young gay children and offer them support. My work as an activist is to be in the community and assist where there is a need” he said. Kat Gilardi is one of the organisers of this weekend’s Mr & Miss Cape Town Pride and said this year they have 15 boys and 16 girls as contestants who all went through auditions before being finalised. “I get a sense that many of our contestants entered because they wanted a platform for activism and to do their bit in raising awareness. During the pandemic many things trickled down, but with restrictions eased, I get a sense that the community wanted a space where they could advocate for change,” Gilardi said. Gilardi said Mr & Miss Cape Town Pride will take place at the Joseph Stone Auditorium in Athlone on February 11 at 6pm. Tickets will not be sold at the door, but will be available on Computicket.