Cape Town – As the dispute over the fate of the Newlands Rugby Stadium rumbles on between the Western Province Rugby Union and some rugby fans over  whether to sell or preserve the facility as a heritage site, residents feel  most affected as the site remains vacant and unmaintained. WP Rugby relocated to the Cape Town Stadium in 2021 and its original home in Newlands has since been neglected, with overgrown grass and reportedly suspicious activities.  According to the local councillor, Mikhail Manuel, the neglect of the property is negatively affecting residents and will harm the image of the suburb if the situation remains the same over a prolonged period.  "While we all take into account the history and the impact the venue has, for community it is not about the long-term plan, but rather having the place maintained and put to good use to prevent unlawful activities that might accumulate over time. "There has already been suspicious behaviour, unusual movements and the street has become dangerously quiet for some months now. Residents say it’s not safe anymore.  “We believe the stadium must be put to a good use for the benefit of the public, whether it's commercial or heritage-related, but something must happen before the activities get out of control," Manuel said. He said the activities have been noted on both Kelvin Grove towards Campground Road and the Rondebosch side near the Main Road. This is happening as WP Rugby and rugby fans await the Western Cape Heritage ruling to determine whether the stadium, whose sale was reportedly considered in 2019, can be a heritage site.  Michael Janse van Rensburg, chief executive officer for the Heritage Western Cape, confirmed that an application was received. It is currently being assessed based on all the information and comments provided by both the nomination dossier and from the public by Heritage Western Cape. He said the proposal joins the likes of the sports facilities within Green Point Common that are part of a proposed Provincial Heritage Site. Explaining what it takes for a place to be considered a heritage resource, Janse van Rensburg said: "It has to be of cultural significance or have special value for present communities and future generations.  “The National Heritage Resources Act 25 of 1999 provides for the criteria for considering a place or object to form part of the National Estate in S 3 (3)." The proposal is believed to have been suggested by former Springbok, Wynand Claassen, who has publicly vowed his activism on proposing the Newlands Rugby Stadium to be turned into a heritage site. He started a campaign called Save Newlands Rugby Stadium. Claassen couldn't be reached for a comment. Administrator Rian Oberholzer was to finalise the sale of Newlands Stadium. “The proposal to declare the stadium a heritage site has the potential to derail so much hard work that has been done to stabilise WP Rugby both on and off the field. “We have consulted with a heritage specialist who is confident that Newlands Stadium does not qualify as a heritage site, but the upcoming public participation process will also be pivotal in determining the outcome of the proposal,” he said. Former rugby player and a big fan, Jamie Pyatt, weighed in, saying: "Newlands was a special place to watch rugby and so many historic games there, including the British and Irish Lions and teams from around the world.  “It had a great atmosphere with great bars around the ground and inside which has been lost at the Bowl. Given the choice I prefer Newlands over the Bowl but understand the need to move on.  “I don't personally think it should be a heritage site. It covers too vast an area where there is a need for social housing and shops to support those in the new housing.  “As historic as it may be as a rugby stadium, it is a rugby stadium and it is not the one that was originally built.  I believe a small part of it should remain to show some of the history.” It remains unclear how long it will be before Western Cape Heritage states the outcome of the application.