Despite it only being for a week, councillors in Matzikama reportedly baulked at the prospect of being led by their fraud-accused deputy mayor, while the incumbent was on sick leave, while opposition leaders also decried the slow implementation of a damning investigative report.  Councillors in the West Coast region baulked at the prospect of having Amelia Job, who faces fraud charges for allegedly lying about her father’s death to have debt written off, step in as mayor while Johan van der Hoven recovered from surgery.  Van der Hoven was injured after he reportedly tripped and fell into his swimming pool. Municipal manager Gerald Seas told Weekend Argus that according to his knowledge, Van der Hoven was set to return to work on Monday. “He will be back tomorrow as per his sick note. I don’t know of any squabbles, but then again, I’m politically (not) aligned,” said Seas. This week, some opposition party members in the embattled municipality also accused the DA leadership of dragging its feet in implementing recommendations of a damning 2020 investigative report into alleged misconduct.  The report, among other things, called for a probe into the excessive travel claims by embattled municipal manager Daniel Lubbe, the review of remuneration packages of all senior managers and the construction of a policy around the appointment of relatives at the municipality. For the period of July 2017 to June 2019, according to the report, Lubbe was paid nearly R145 000 for travel and subsistence claims. These claims were for various out-of-office trips for workshops, conferences and other meetings ranging from between about R260 to R12 000 for a period of between two to eight days out of office. "It is uncertain as to the nature and content of the claims and to what extent the travel was essential," read the report.  “These are matters which may be uncovered through a detailed investigation into all trips and days away from the office and the value-add to the municipality. "We find that the municipal manager was out of office for 71 days for the period January to July 2017, 98 days from January to November 2018 and 48 days from January to June 2018 ... there appears to have been an absence of direct management for large periods.  “The extent of the travel itself seems excessive, when one looks at the heightened management responsibility of a municipal manager towards a municipality and the community it serves. There is in effect a loss of management capacity in the municipality for a total of roughly six and half months during a term of about 24 months.” Other allegations that were probed included the appointment of Andrew Koopman, Job’s son, into the administrative portfolio of the municipality. The report found that Koopman’s appointment in 2018 was unlawful. The municipality also requested a review of what it called "political appointments". ANC West Coast regional spokesperson Tshepiso Segaecho said the report was tabled by the new council and set aside by the mayor for further scrutiny, however nothing has been done to date. He said the contraventions in the 2020 forensic report emerged in 2016.  Segaecho said he was mostly shocked by the fact that the current deputy mayor had appointed her son.  “On page 125, the allegations of nepotism as well as maladministration of funds are stipulated. Since the report saw the light in 2020, the findings have not been concluded as the municipality has not processed the document and concluded the findings.” Segaecho also fingered the deputy mayor in fraud allegations.  “Before the death of her father, she had his municipal debt written off. He is now deceased, but at the time of the allegations he was still alive. It is a struggle to make the document see the light of day because the people who are in power are implicated by it. It is in the public interest for people to see this document. The truth must prevail,” he said. Weekend Argus