Cape Town - The Art4Life Therapy non-profit organisation got an opportunity to exhibit its work at Love is Burgers in the Cape Town CBD on Thursday to raise funds to support its creative lessons. It was invited to be part of First Thursday, where local artists who make an impact in their communities get recognised and offered a spot to sell their creations and network. Kenneth Alexander, from Grassy Park, said this would boost their programme, as the NPO is self-funded and relies on casual donations by a few who have noted the impact it has on the lives of Cape Flats youths. He voluntarily teaches youth acrylic painting on canvas, oil painting for outdoor wall murals, as well as sketching, and hosts monthly outings to parks, museums, hiking and other activities. “It’s not easy to get these kinds of opportunities, only a few people support our cause. All the proceeds from this exhibition will help to buy the material and feed our participants and, hopefully, be enough to help us organise our outing soon. “The focus is not just on producing artists, but a balanced and mentally and socially groomed being with an open mind to what the world has to offer. “You know on their first task they had to draw their role models. Some drew known gangsters, guys with fancy cars, because that’s all they see as success and an inspiration. “These are children who some of them never get the opportunity to go out of their community or be in a proper part or visit fun places. We take them out on some Saturdays to go draw from different parks where we have disciplinary talks to promote behavioural change and instil a positive mindset,” Alexander said. “We are removing the idea that our children cannot do certain things because of their circumstances. The talent is there, but there are no opportunities or mentorship. I had no idea of what to expect when I spoke about this to my family. But when I started that’s when I realised how much of a need this was, and the children knew who could draw better and they invited each other. “It was difficult to keep up with the numbers as we see growth from each community, and the money to buy the brushes, paints, pencil and sketch papers came from my pocket, wife’s and my in-laws. I appreciate platforms like these,” he said. Love is Burgers public relations officer Elizabeth Ribeiro said the business is family-run and has a strong background and passion for art. They understand the challenges faced by local artists and have decided to offer their space once a month to those who contribute to community upliftment. She said they recently found out about Art4Life and were impressed by the impact it was making in the lives of the disadvantaged children. “We invited them to be part of the fund-raise and our clients are very supportive. While we’re helping with the marketing as part of the First Thursdays and run the fund-raisers, we let them sell their work and keep all the proceeds on the day as well. “It’s not all of us who can run these programmes, but we can be part of the change they are trying to make by contributing and offering whatever we can. Times are hard, especially in the creative industry. I can imagine spending on charity work from your own pocket, it takes courage in these times.” Grateful is Kyle Cupido, a co-founder and event organiser for Art4Life who said their programmes acts as therapy to get youths’ focus “away from social ills such as poverty, abuse, possible substance abuse and joining a gang. That’s the outreach element we saw the need for”. “Often, the social construct that they create for themselves keeps them trapped in the same cycle of ‘this is my life and there is nothing else out there for me’. Our aim is to break that cycle and give them life experiences, teach them art, encourage them and spoil them a bit,” Cupido said.