Although Devon Bailey, 32, from Eldorado Park in Johannesburg, and Simone Thomas, 33, from Mitchell’s Plain in Cape Town, come from different parts of the country, they have two things in common – when life pushes them, they push back, and they rise above their adversities. These two women believe that by pushing through adversity you enable yourself to not become a product of your circumstances. Bailey, or rather the Dancing Dr as she refers to herself, has completed her PhD in Philosophy after five challenging years.  She excitedly said, “Allow me to reintroduce myself. I'm Dr Devon Bailey, the dancing doctor – just a regular girl from Eldos and the first coloured woman in South Africa to complete a PhD in Philosophy.” Bailey had to complete her degree while battling crippling endometriosis and raising her 5-year-old daughter as well as being a lecturer at UJ Philosophy.  “I have always said I will not allow life to happen to me. We are not our circumstances. Put in the work and keep your eyes on the prize. It will come into fruition.” She laughed before she told Weekend Argus she had many dreams while growing up.  “And by the time I had to go to university I had no idea what I wanted to do. In 2008 I went to universities and started researching a few things before I made a final choice. I’m a deep thinker and found out that philosophy means ‘Love of Wisdom’ and that’s how I ended up in the philosophy department.”  Philosophy harnessed her ability to have difficult conversations, “teaching me not to raise my voice, but to improve my argument”. In 2016, she completed her Master’s degree and fell pregnant with her now six year old in 2017. In 2018, with the plan to complete her PhD, Bailey was diagnosed with stage-four endometriosis.  “Every day was a struggle. The debilitating pain kept me chained to my bed.” Bailey, who is also a professional breakdancer, had to give up her dancing career during this time. And now five years later, Bailey has finally achieved what she set out for herself five years ago.  “Victory is a series of battles you overcome, bit by bit, not all at once. Be willing to challenge and confront yourself, your excuses, your laziness, your sense of entitlement, your ego. God exalts those who humble themselves and work their faith.” Simone Thomas is busy completing her Doctor of Commerce in Marketing thesis through one of CPUT’s partner universities in Germany.  “It is a very exciting but extremely lonely experience. I also have a co-supervisor that I haven't worked with before compared to my principal supervisor who I worked with for five years for my Master’s of Marketing.”  Besides that aspect, the topic Thomas is focusing on lacks existing literature and research and according to her, her field is white and male dominant.  “I presented a work-in-paper progress at a conference in the UK last year, and it was evident. So, as a coloured female from the Cape Flats I have to psyche myself up all the time by reminding myself that this opportunity would not have come my way if I wasn't capable of doing it. The topic created much discussion,” she explained. Thomas, who grew up in Mitchell’s Plain, said the challenges she faced included funding, since her mom was a single parent, as well as travelling to and from university from Mitchell’s Plain.  “It is easy to give up but so much more rewarding when you receive that degree or degrees.” Her message to aspiring PhD students as well as young people from disadvantaged communities is, “Have a vision for the life of your dreams and make decisions that will help you live it. Make sure that you always listen twice as much as you speak and find mentors that will hold you accountable while cheering you on.” And as the saying goes – write down the vision – if it's not written down, it's just wishful thinking! Weekend Argus