Cape Town – A budget of R8.4 million has been spent on the upkeep of the Table Bay Nature Reserve that is currently in a state of shame with its dying ecosystem, stinking canals and lack of attractive activities. According to nature lovers, the reserve, jointly owned by the City of Cape Town and the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), has over the years lost its significance due to consistent sewage leaks, environmental pollution and poor management.  It's alarming state of affairs is worsened by sewage spills on the Milnerton side and the Metro, leaving the public worrying about the long-term effect on the biodiversity at the site and its surroundings. Michaela Gabriel said: "Sadly, the last study found no fish in the lagoon. Smaller creatures like crabs and sand prawns have also disappeared due to lack of food. Fish-eating birds and otters have also left the area.“ She added that last year at a public meeting, the City admitted that the ecosystem in the lower Diep River and Milnerton Lagoon had completely collapsed. "The Diep River is facing severe contamination from three primary sources, including inadequately treated effluent from the Potsdam wastewater treatment plant, spills from malfunctioning pump stations and contaminated stormwater run-off from informal settlements.  “While waiting for the upgrade, the performance of the Potsdam plant should be assessed by independent experts and perhaps supplemented by package plants to increase capacity. Discharging contaminated water into a nature reserve might be cheaper but is not a feasible long-term solution," added Gabriel. Hilary Smuts said she had to watch the beauty of the reserve perish. "(It’s) dying at the hands of the City of Cape Town and no one is ready to address the issue; each one points to the other." She said the filth was a health hazard to humans and the environment as a whole. It was likely to contribute towards ozone damage and the extinction of common species in the area. "The reserve is adjacent to our horse riding (facility) and we have noted that our horses get bacteria, and membership has decreased drastically. We used to have about 50 members but now we're about 26. There are fewer activities due to the stink and poorly managed surroundings," said Smuts. She said the City was spending money on less important things than securing the legacy and significance of the nature reserve. Eddie Andrews, the City’s deputy mayor and mayco member for Spatial Planning and Environment, said the operational budget was used for the day-to-day operations of the reserve, such as safety and security, minor repairs and maintenance, servicing of plant and fleet, materials and consumables, minor tools and equipment, salaries and wages, leave and overtime pay, insurance, and so forth. He said the City was in the process of undertaking several empirical studies to determine the actual state of the areas impacted by the pollution. A re-mediation action plan will be available to members of the public once the studies have been completed.  This plan aims to address both terrestrial and aquatic components and also details the dire ecological state of the Diep River. They include extensive field assessments and hydrodynamic modelling to determine the most effective remedial actions to address the current situation. "The Diep River Estuary Management Plan identifies pragmatic and realistic management interventions that will be undertaken against short, medium and long-term time horizons to address the current pressures on the estuary, and within the context of a heavily altered and urbanised environment," said Andrews. He explained that the budget for any remedial action plans to be undertaken would be separate from the operational budget and would be finalised during supply chain management processes. Siseko Mbandezi, the mayco member for Water and Sanitation, added: "The City’s Water and Sanitation teams respond to reported sewer overflows and spills in the shortest time possible to reduce the impact on the receiving environment as much as possible." Andrea Weiss, the spokesperson for WWF, said the maintenance and management of the reserve was the City's responsibility.  "When Transnet donated the two erven to WWF for incorporation into the Table Bay Reserve Area, we entered into a long-term management agreement with the City of Cape Town as the managing authority," she said.