Cape Town - Get your child a copy of “Reading Journey” and watch them turn into an adventurous little artist as they navigate and enjoy the interactiveness of the book. The self-published book owned by the Otto Foundation is a combination of theory and practical learning tool allowing children to jot down their ideas and illustrate their level of understanding while exposing them to the reality of planning and embarking on a journey. It has a variety of documentation required for each preferred kind of travelling, including a format of a passport, diary and map, which children don’t just read about, but also get to fill in their details and answer the questions. Its illustrator, Xanele Puren, said: “The reading journal is a companion for young readers to navigate their reading journey and find their voice as authors and creators. The wonderful thing about this book is that it is an adventure story where you can expect to follow a group of furry and feathered friends for an extraordinary adventure in the world of words, stories and books. In addition, it is a journal and contains poems and prompts for self-expression. With no predefined ‘correct’ responses, children can, with agency, plot their reading journeys based on their own reading choices and what interests them as readers.” Puren said their research showed that reading for enjoyment is more important for children's educational success than their family’s socio-economic status. She added that reading is not only a technical skill that must be developed in school. “Learners are more likely to read for pleasure when they have access to diverse and exciting books, have choices in what they are reading. The journal’s combination of illustration, storytelling and creative activities fosters a deepened appreciation for books and expands children’s identity as readers.” Some parents have already got their little ones hooked on the book. “My daughter is really loving the book,” said Sarah May Conwright, a mom to a 10-year-old daughter. “I think the thing that really caught her imagination is its interactivity – she feels like she is the co-author, and I suppose she actually is. I feel that the prompts really inspire creative thinking and expression and engender an excitement around reading,” she said. Meanwhile, Karlien Potgieter, who bought the book for her 8-year-old son, said: “Lukas loves reading adventure books, and this journal really takes you on one. He enjoys the prompts throughout that encourage a love for books and reading. For example, asking friends what their favourite books are, documenting the books you have already read, and writing your own short stories in different styles.” This 162-page book is available in English and Afrikaans at Foundation or their distributor, Imagnary House’s online store, the Exclusive Books online store, and selected bookshops at R250 per copy.