The country’s struggle to keep the lights on has not only disrupted people’s daily lives, but has also had a dire effect on business, particularly for small business owners such as Manuel Mapossa, who runs a poultry business in Mosselbay. Mapossa, who, like many other South Africans, lost his job during the Covid-19 pandemic, after 13 years in the hospitality industry, was inspired to start a poultry business, which is now threatened by load shedding. He said he had to stop operating for the past two months after it proved impossible to continue with his business due to power cuts that affected it very badly. “The moment Eskom announced Stage 6 of load shedding, I knew it was going to be very difficult to continue, so I had no choice but to stop operating the business, for me to regroup and see what energy alternatives I could come up with to keep my chickens alive,” said Mapossa. He started his business by selling chickens from the boot of his car, and he now processes the chickens and sells packaged meat under his brand name, DeeMap Poultry. He started this business with his wife, Danisha, with a budget of R5 000. “I love what I do, and I think we have created a good reputation for ourselves. However, I fear that our reputation has been compromised because we can’t deliver the products that our customers expect. This is very bad for business, however, we have no choice but to continue with it,” said Mapossa. He said he had started to window-shop for solar energy equipment that will assist when the power goes off, but for now, his business remained closed. “Once we have everything in place, we are looking at reopening just before the end of this month, hopefully,” said Mapossa. According to FairPlay, South African poultry producers supply 66% of the country’s meat, and the threat to the industry from electricity shortages and other factors is a threat to national food security. “Hours of daily power cuts, known as load shedding, meant that a modern and efficient industry, geared to 24-hour production, now faced a perfect storm,” said FairPlay founder Francois Baird. He said chicken production was vital for South Africa’s food security, and chickens are produced in vast and affordable quantities, and are by far the country’s most popular meat protein, particularly for low-income households. “Small poultry farmers without the means to provide alternative energy are in dire straits. Maize and soya farmers, who feed the chickens, cannot irrigate their crops. A poultry feed shortage may loom next year, further escalating input and consumer prices for chicken,” said Baird.