Cape Town - Education experts and organisations point at the government as the reason 82% of South African Grade 4 pupils can’t read, and the lack of a budget for reading for children in South Africa. It has been four years since President Cyril Ramaphosa announced in Parliament, during his State of the Nation Address, that reading would be a top five priority, yet there has been no progress, no plan and no budget, say education experts. Yesterday, Dr Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka chaired the 2023 conference of the 2030 Reading Panel.  The reading panel consists of 18 seasoned South African panellists, which include academics and leaders. The panel found among many things that there has been no budget for reading in South Africa, although the director-general has made reference to a national reading plan in Parliament. Founder of Parents for Equal Education SA, Vanessa Le Roux said no amount will ever fix the issue of reading, and the lack of it among school pupils, as the issue is not a reading budget, but the government’s inability to look into the student and teacher ratio. “Even if you spend R2 billion on reading, if the class is more than 50 pupils in size, what do you expect to happen? Who do we blame? We can’t blame the teachers. What are they supposed to do when there is a large class and inadequate resources,” she said. Le Roux said she was certain that if the same resources of former Model C schools were issued in townships, with a lower number of learners, there would be significant improvement in the reading of young people.  She also lambasted the government for not prioritising Grade R education and its teachers. “Grade R is the most fundamental phase of any child’s development, if children can learn their alphabets by the end of Grade R, reading will be seamless in Grade 1,” she said. The 2030 reading panel also found that 50% of children in no-fee schools did not learn the letters of the alphabet by the end of Grade 1.  Ian Cameron of Action Society says these findings are prone to be evident as the government does not prioritise education. “Education and reading is not a priority for the government. We have seen some MECs have focussed more on populist matters, and not core issues such as education. If we don’t turn things around,  we won’t be able to constructively build a youth with a future. The youth are the future,” he said.