Gqeberha: from the lavish lifestyles to juggling careers, homes and husbands, the “Real Housewives of Gqeberha” has all the drama and bling to keep fans entertained. The wealthy women of Gqeberha will let viewers into their social circles, parenting challenges, personality clashes and rich people’s problems.  At the launch of RHOGQ on Thursday, the media got to meet the cast.  Career-focused Norma Nicol is an events planner at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium. She’s a dedicated wife and mom. Buli G Ngomane is a high-end events planner, brand ambassador, former “Idols SA” contestant and award-winning businesswoman.  Liz Prins is a dedicated mom and socialite who loves jogging. She is a construction project manager who sold her company for eight figures while navigating life as a widow. Unathi Faku is a successful salon owner and the wife of the city’s former mayor.  Ashleigh Mather is a wife and mom who works in the fast-paced fashion industry. Her family owns two of the biggest clubs in the city. In pure Eastern Cape style, the Grace of Destiny Dancers cheerfully welcomed the media during the exclusive preview of the “Housewives of GQ” in Gqeberha. Beautifully dressed Noluthando “Nolly” Meje was master of ceremonies. When asked why MultiChoice chose Gqeberha as the next edition of the Housewives franchise in South Africa, Shirley Adonisi, director of Local Entertainment Channels at M-Net, said it was a “no-brainer”. She explained: “We are so diverse as a country where it concerns our nuances, cultural differences, the scenery and the culture. We are so excited to put Gqeberha on the map. It’s very important for us to get to every single corner of the country and showcasing successful stories which exists amongst us but people never get to see.” Adonisi further said that the spotlight was now shining on Gqeberha and the people of the Eastern Cape. “There is a sense of pride amongst the people when they speak about these productions [“Gqeberha the Empire” and the “Real Housewives of GQ”].” Jemma Ford, the executive producer of the show, said the selection process started about a year ago. One cast member opened her doors to the channel and that is how they met the rest of the cast. “The show is not scripted and if you still have doubts one meet with the girls and you will know it’s real. Viewers can look forward to having to embrace comedy, as these ladies are quite funny, there is depth of character, love in their hearts and mischief in their ways. Strong, powerful women with a vision for themselves and Gqeberha.” And during a Q&A with Noluthando, one of the Housewives, Ashleigh Mather, summed it up perfectly: “What you see is what you get. We’re starting with a bang and ending with an even bigger bang.” Don’t miss the premiere of “The Real Housewives of Gqeberha” on 1Magic (DStv Channel 103) on Friday, February 3 at 20:30. Hold on to your hats and clutch your pearls – it’s going to be a show to remember. Weekend Argus