Cape Town - The overgrown grass in public spaces may be a thing of the past as the City of Cape Town has finally appointed a mowing contractor. Today, the City announced that five service providers had been appointed and were servicing all grassed areas across the metropole. This after many residents complained about neglected open public areas last year when the City delayed the process of awarding the contract. The City said in a statement that thousands of hectares of grassed parks, sports fields, road reserves, green belts, cemeteries and public open spaces were attended to in mowing cycles, according to varying growth patterns. Community Services and Health Mayco member Patricia Van der Ross, said: “Mowing at City parks, sports fields and public open spaces is important in maintaining our natural environment within an urban context. These spaces are very popular among our residents and visitors, to spend some time in the outdoors for relaxation, leisure or exercise. We thank the public for their patience over the past few months, and we also applaud our internal teams who worked very hard to fill the void while the tender was being resolved. The Recreation and Parks Department will work closely with the service providers to ensure improved and ongoing maintenance of open spaces.” The ‘Weekend Argus  Saturday’ previously reported on the poor state of cemeteries, including Klip Road in Ottery, Maitland, Mowbray, Delft and Gugulethu, as well as public parks and open spaces that had become a danger to communities (Grave state of Cape Town cemeteries, October 8; Residents want action to halt railway line crime, October 29; and Hazendal ‘outcasts’ bemoan lack of service from City, December 3). Sandy Lawrence from Mitchells Plain, who previously complained about a cemetery, said: "I am glad to hear that they are now doing something about the grass, but I don't have faith in the City anymore. I guess we’ll have to wait and see. The success of the project will depend on the company they have appointed, because the previous one was just a problem. They will need to monitor and ensure that both the main contractor and sub-contractors are actually doing their job. Meanwhile, Mandy from Hazendal hopes for a positive outcome. She said there won’t be  hiding spots for criminals anymore. Mandy said the situation had brought criminal elements on to her doorstep, with youth smoking and dealing in drugs at the park in Bokmakierie, hiding and preying on pedestrians at any time of the day.  According to the statement, the contracts are in place until June 30, 2024. The City said that after experiencing delays with the mowing tender due to appeals, the department had already initiated the process for a new tender to be in place after the current one expired.