It has always been a dream of Joslyn Abrahams to be her own boss and create employment opportunities for people in her community.  And after the death of her father at the end of last year, she finally decided to take a leap of faith and pursue her dreams. As part of the healing process from her grief, Abrahams turned her passion for hair and beautifying people into a business and Styled By J&J  was born. Abrahams, who grew up on a smallholding in Jonkershoek and now lives in Stellenbosch, enthusiastically told Weekend Argus that she has had a love for hair and making people look and feel beautiful since childhood.  Her love for beautification started with herself because, “when you look good, you feel good”. Her business is still in its infant stages, but since she opened Styled by J&J's doors in December, the business has been operating seamlessly.  "Since the opening of the salon, two actors from Arendsvlei,  Chad Baai and Chanté Grainger, have visited the salon. This coming week we also welcome the Miss SA semi-finalist Rechaux Browne at our salon for a hair service." Abrahams, who is a qualified journalist and currently works for a radio station, said her goal was to have all customers who get up from her chair feel beautiful and leave with a positive outlook about themselves and life.  "What makes Styled By J&J different is that we provide service to men, women and children. We also spoil our clients with a delicious coffee of their choice or water. I want to provide them with a relaxed atmosphere,“ she explained.  Abrahams currently has three employees while she holds the title of owner and manager. Abrahams said that like all small businesses, hers also had to adapt to operating under the crippling power cuts.  "We schedule clients according to the load shedding schedule, but our (barber) can still continue with his service during load shedding." Abrahams has big dreams for her salon. “Imagine what I can achieve in a year from now. I am an example that you do not only have to pursue one career – you can be, who you want to be,” she said.  Weekend Argus