The Western Cape Education Department has been urged to speedily resolve a feud with a taxi association “using children as leverage” to gain a scholar transport tender. Close to 300 children from Mfuleni and Brentwood Park failed to turn up for classes at Academia Primary School in Khayelitsha for almost two weeks after the Cape Organisation for the Democratic Taxi Association (Codeta) reportedly barred scholar transport from operating on their route. Parents say they were puzzled when they received a text message from the operators informing them that they would not pick up the learners anymore. Concerned mom Nontsikelelo Manqamane said: “Last Tuesday, the school buses managed to fetch some kids but then when it made the second trip, the children were told to get off the bus,” she explained. “We then received a message from the school, saying they would drop off the learners who were already in school, including my son, who’s in Grade 1. “Ever since then, they didn’t return to school. They are at home and very heartbroken they can’t attend school,” she said. The Mfuleni mom said the parents went to the Codeta offices, where it was confirmed that they were behind the blockade. “The taxi drivers said they want the bus tender to be awarded to them. “They said they had been fighting to get the tender in the previous years and last year they were promised by education they would get the contract,” Nontsikelelo told the Weekend Argus. “They didn’t want anyone who is not from Codeta driving on their route and we are scared they might want to charge us as the buses are free. “We want our kids to go back to their classes, they are missing out on their work and it is clear the taxi industry doesn't know how to get what they want and use our children as leverage,” she said Another parent, Dee Payi said she fears for her daughter’s safety while alone at home. “We can't afford to pay for the transport so our children are at home. We are worried that if our children don’t return to school, they will end up being on drugs or even raped,” she said. Equal Education called on the WCED to ensure that children get to school. “The WCED is responsible for finding alternative ways to ensure learners attend school, irrespective of any dispute with transport service providers. Learners missing out on schooling because of a lack of learner transport or being caught up in a political battle is unacceptable,” said the organisation’s head of research Elizabeth Bine. “We cannot afford for learners to miss any more days of school, especially in preventable and easily remedied situations. There needs to be firm consequences for anyone who impedes learners from going to school. “The situation needs to be resolved urgently and the taxi drivers involved dealt with according to the law,” she said. MEC for Education, David Maynier accused the taxi associations of trying to muscle in on learner transport contracts. “The associations are reportedly intimidating drivers and demanding that they not operate. “Let us be clear: the Western Cape Education Department will not meet with any taxi association until they terminate their blockade, and teaching and learning resumes without disruption,” he said. Codeta’s Nceba Enge insisted they wanted a meeting with the department before the buses operate again. “Last March we met with the department and told them we want to be responsible for transporting children because we didn’t want buses from outside our townships doing what we are capable of doing. “At the time the contract was to end in April and the buses would continue on a month-to-month basis while we were negotiating but the second meeting never took place. “The department refuses to give us the tender and the drivers have now revolted. “We understand the children have not been to school but we want the meeting to happen before they can return to their classes. We don’t have an option, it is not our wish that the children stay away from school,” he said MEC for Mobility, Ivan Meyer’s spokesman Daniel Johnson, said the department has contacted the police to investigate the matter. “During the last two weeks, the department and the WCED received complaints from learner transport contractors and operators of criminal acts of extortion and intimidation perpetrated against drivers and learners. “Reported incidents are clustered in Khayelitsha, Langa, Nyanga and other areas, with the criminals claiming to represent Cata (Cape Amalgamated Taxi Association) and Codeta. “We have been informed that victims of these crimes, including the drivers of the vehicles, owners, and the learners in the vehicles, are warned that they will be targeted if they dare to open criminal cases. Johnson said the department, through the office of the taxi registrar, had called leaders of both taxi associations to account for their members’ actions. “The ‘mother-bodies’ stated that the nameless and faceless perpetrators do not act on their orders. The registrar is not empowered to investigate these criminal actions. The actions that transport regulatory authorities may take are very limited,” he said. Weekend Argus