Cape Town – Out of about 50 sand mining operations in the Western Cape, three own the rights to Macassar Dunes and hold a responsibility to address the key socio-economic needs of the community. This is according to the Department of Mineral Resources and Energy (DMRE) as it gives clarity as to what it means to own mining rights in the communities.. Makhosonke Buthelezi, the DMRE spokesperson, explained this after Macassar residents complained of neglect of their community and the negative impact to the Dunes which reportedly have a significant heritage to them(Community outcry over ‘doomed dunes’ in Macassar). Buthelezi said, currently the companies are currently complaint with the Environmental Management Programmes Environmental Authorizations. "Firstly, authorisations issued by the Department whether Mining Rights or Environmental Authorisations are subject to in-depth processes carried out by applicants and intense review by the Department.  “The Environmental Impact Assessment process, amongst other, forms part of the authorisation process which involve Public Participation Process and consultation with Interested and Affected Parties drawing-in surrounding communities and landowners. “The Terms and Conditions of the Mining Rights require mining companies to contribute to social upliftment of surrounding and affected communities through Social and Labor Plans (SLPs) approved by the department following intense scrutiny of the reports informing such plans,” Buthelezi explained. He said the department was committed to sustainable development of mineral resources and to ensuring that socio-economic development is in consideration and management of environment. He said the socio-economic plans may include building of classrooms, bursary allocation, awarding laptops and supporting of libraries. "We also urge the community to participate in Public Participation Process so that their voices are considered in decision making.  “We also urge co-operation between community and industry.  “The community is encouraged to file concerns with the Department and with the mining companies,” concluded Buthelezi. Tanya Pretorius, the national marketing officer at Afrimat said, Afrimat is passionate about South Africa and the communities in which they operate. “Afrimat will be in a better position to formally comment on progress made in regard to projects planned for the community after the formal Stakeholder Engagement Meeting has been held later this month,” She said. The City of Cape Town has recently revealed their plans preserve the area into a nature reserve to preserve its environmental impact.