Cape Town - Armed with their own funds a group of young people are determined to ensure that no girl misses school because she doesn’t have pads while on their period.  The Pink Love Foundation was founded in 2021 by a handful of young people who are working and studying to provide sanitary pads to young girls in schools and communities. Linda Mzazi, from Mfuleni, one of the founding members of Pink Love Foundation, said they had identified two schools in Mfuleni, one in Dunoon and one in Delft. “We use our own finances and approach schools where we give presentations to young girls. We usually work with primary schools and the girls we mostly provide pads for are in Grade 7. “We do get teachers who suggest learners who may need pads in Grade 5, who may also be disadvantaged and be in dire need. In our presentations, we teach girls the importance of hygiene while on their periods, and what to do when in an emergency,” she said. Mzazi said the presentations have begun a network and sisterhood for the young girls in these schools. “We share and debrief on our own personal experiences and how we felt when it was our first time having a period. We allow the learners to share their own experiences and we give them advice,” she said. Linomtha Mzazi, who is also a member, shared how they have largely been rejected by men when they have asked for donations. “Most men have been dismissive when we’ve approached them for donations. They tell us that they don’t have periods. But we do get generous people with good hearts who are always willing to donate. We are always open to donations,” she said. Nokuthula Nkojoane , one of the members of the foundation, said the foundation survived solely on their personal finances and that sponsors would assist in easing the financial pressure. “We have been approached by two homes in Nyanga and Tambo via Facebook who have asked us to support some of their girls with pads. We support young girls there, too. The age range is between 11 and 18 years,” she said. Mzazi said they usually group learners from each school, and that a February distribution of pads was soon coming and that they still lacked sponsors.