A bittersweet moment – this is how singer and actress Athina Jansen described her mood as she prepares to leave South Africa to follow her heart to South Korea.  But before the 28-year-old Kraaifontein resident packs her bags and leaves for Asia, fans will see her debut in a new drama series, “Mooiweer en Warm”, that premiered this week.  Jansen plays the character of Maddy Arendse, a sharp-tongued physiotherapist who is not afraid to speak her mind.  This is Jansen’s first leading role in a series.  “It’s so amazing to see my character take shape on television and I can’t wait for people to see more of the witty Maddy.”  She excitedly said that it was an absolute pleasure sharing the set with a stellar cast that included Carla Smith, Carlo Daniels, Geon Nel, Brümilda van Rensburg, Marisa Drummond, Kim Cloete and others.  “These are people I dreamt of working with and now I’ve finally got an opportunity to do so. How amazing to fulfil my childhood dream of sharing the screen with them.” Jansen said her dream came true just as she was preparing to leave the country in the first week of March. “The plan was always to move to South Korea to join my boyfriend Ken Marquez, but I never expected the breakthrough in my career to happen at the same time that the move was to take place,” she said.  “I am so grateful for every opportunity that has come my way so far and can’t believe how I’ve grown over the past two years as an artist as well as a person.”  Jansen also released her first single, “Vir Jou”, this year. “I opened myself up to opportunities. While I was waiting to secure gigs I worked as a presenter at RSG (Radio Sonder Grense) and also as project manager at the Stigting for Bemagtiging deur Afrikaans. “Diversify yourself. Follow your dreams but don’t limit yourself as an individual. You can do more than one thing – do not box yourself or your capabilities.” Jansen is hosting a farewell concert on February 19 at the URC Church in Kraaifontein to say goodbye to the industry and share the stage with the likes of Jodi Jantjies, Marsha Bothma, Whaden Johannes and others.  “It will be held in the church where my career started as a child. It’s a full circle moment.” “Mooiweer en Warm” airs on kykNET (DStv channel 144) at 8pm. Tickets for Jansen’s “Koebaai” (Goodbye) concert can be bought at the door. Weekend Argus