As load shedding continues to cripple the country, insurance companies have seen a 250% increase in claims related to power surges. Soraya Felix from Mitchells Plain was forced to give up her employment to care for her cancer-stricken husband, Mo-ain.  “I began to sell ice cream to make enough money for bread and electricity for the week. But I have experienced that my ice cream is not freezing, but becoming like milkshake, and if it freezes again it is not the same quality and is watery. “I was forced to close my business when the four-hourly load shedding started. Now we are living off our children’s grants and it is often not enough to carry us through the month.” Widaadh Williams, who runs the Al Furqaan Foundation in Freedom Park, Mitchells Plain, had to discard chicken meant for the underprivileged. “I’ve lost a 10kg box of chicken with the value of R420, and when there is no electricity I have to use gas, which is eating at my pockets.” Vuyokazi Qumba from Kuils River lost thousands of rand after his fridge malfunctioned after a power surge. “I’ve had to throw away half a lamb and several litres of milk.” Nadine Williams runs a cake baking and decorating businesses in Strandfontein known as the Curvy Cakery. She said she has been placed under immense pressure and stress. “I can’t take on too many cake orders anymore or I will sit with melted cakes. I don’t sleep at night because I have to work until the early morning to make sure my customers’ cakes are done on time. This is my only source of income.” Another business owner, who asked not to be identified for fear of victimisation by her landlords, said she began a cold meat-selling business in 2022. “My cold meats go off and I sometimes sit without customers. I have rent to pay which is not a small amount, and I cannot push enough stock in as is. This is a nightmare and they just don’t care about how small food businesses are being affected.” Bettersure Financial Consultants spokesperson Carla Oberholzer said the recent statistics confirmed there was a crisis. “From the statistics, it is clear the percentage of claims related to power surges increased by 250% from 2021 to 2022. Power surge-related claims, as a percentage of total claims, have increased from 2% in January 2021 to 5% in January 2022 and to 8% in January 2023.”  Oberholzer said those who have insurance must read their policy to see how their coverage works in terms of their agreement. Mayco member for Community Services and Health, councillor Patricia van der Ross said people should not eat food that is spoiled.  “The City’s Food Control Unit advises the public to closely monitor perishable foodstuff. The public is also advised to monitor food for any signs of spoilage. Do not taste the food, as this could lead to food poisoning. “Discard any foodstuff that has a bad odour, is discoloured or shows any change in texture. It’s important to note that perishable food kept at room temperature for longer than two hours may not be safe anymore.” Eskom’s media centre said they would respond to queries. Weekend Argus