Any pursuit in life comes with its challenges. The creative arts in particular, require an investment of soul and mind which can sometimes weigh heavily on an artist, and the greatest challenge is to remain creative. Cape Town-born composer, pianist and orchestrator Mikhaila Alyssa Smith, 28, is based in New York City, and is known for an array of musical styles. The multi-award-winning musician is celebrated for scoring films spanning several genres, including drama, magical realism, fantasy and animation. In addition, her creative work extends to the concert hall and interdisciplinary art, where she enjoys experimenting with various sonic palettes and the endless possibilities of harmony and orchestration. Smith, born and raised in Kuilsriver, said it was important to remain true to herself and express what she felt and wanted to say, as a composer. “I am also always sure to remind myself of why I do what I do in the first place; it’s incredibly grounding to take myself back to my ‘why’. Everything else flows from there.” Smith’s love for music started at a young age. “Music was a part of my life from the very beginning and my grandmother often speaks about the times I waltzed around her living room singing songs I had just made up. I loved to dance and I loved to sing.” She also vividly recalled the moment her parents surprised her with her first piano, when she was eight. “It was an upright Otto Bach and it was the most beautiful thing I had ever seen. When I placed my hands on those keys, I knew it was meant just for me. Music and literature were my two greatest passions as a child and naturally, my love for storytelling formed a big part of my journey as a composer.” When Smith moved to New York in 2018, to further her studies at New York University, she could never have imagined what would follow. However, since her move she has experienced several career highlights. “Moving to New York was pretty spectacular. I consider it a career highlight because it was a dream I had for as long as I can remember. What followed the move were some wonderful projects that included my work on Netflix’s Look Both Ways, Hulu/Disney’s Rosaline and HBO’s Edge of the Earth, which are a few of my most memorable projects thus far.” She obtained a Bachelor’s degree in concert composition from the University of Cape Town. During her studies, she was selected to spend a semester abroad at the University of California, Los Angeles, where she studied music theory, composition and orchestration with Ian Krouse and David Lefkowitz.  She now holds a Master’s degree in film scoring from New York University, where she studied with composers Mark Suozzo, Chris Hajian, Rich Shemaria and Grammy Award-winning composer Michael Patterson. Smith is working on a solo piano album she plans to release in the Fall. She is also collaborating with documentary and wildlife filmmaker Tessa Barlin (National Geographic Explorer) on her latest documentary, The Star Project. Her advice to aspiring musicians is, “In anything and everything, always do what feels authentic to you - and dream. Dream the most spectacular dreams, and if it scares you, know that you’re doing something right.” Weekend Argus